Number 1: Mind mapping.Mind mapping is basically aphysical form ofhow our brain works.Our brain does not work linearly.Our brain hasconnections formed in it. “This thing is connected to that. This is connected to that.This is connectedto these two things.Of those two things,the first oneis connectedto these three things.”If you were to create this as a physical diagram,your work and productivitywould be maximized. For example, a simple mind map around time management.In time management, thereare a lot of components.But if we want toreduce them into a map,first of all, where does time go?So, where time goes?What are the working hours?How we work?So, this is ameasurement of our time.Then, what is theaction plan of time?So, what is our future orientation? What are our personal goals?What are our steps forachieving those goals? Then, what are the time wasters?So, what is our biggest time waste?Where do personalinterruption occur?What are the opportunitieswhere we can make time?Getting out of thesetime-wasting opportunities, how do we get them? Then, what are the distractions? It could be text messagesor social mediaor co-worker conversations or work breaks in officeand so on.Then comes organisation.So, you would organiseyour entire workspace.You would organise yourcommunication channels.You would minimise them.You would only workthrough WhatsApp or email.Whatever the case may be.It could be effective reading.Saying no. So, what are its challenges?What is its importance?It is understanding yourwork properly and doing it.Teamwork priorities.So, you would seeall these componentsof time management,they come together toto make your time management skills possible.And if you look at eachof these components,what are the thingswhich can be neglected?When you would see them andcreate a map of them,you will have a technique to become productive.There are a lot ofmind mapping softwareswhich you can easily search ongoogle for mind mapping software.There are free and paid softwares, but believe me, it's a game changer if you get used to it.Number 2: The Zettelkasten method. An interesting method where through notes,whether they are sticky notesor physical paper notes, you will create a journey.Here's an example thatyou can see on the screen.Step 1:Suppose you have four notes.So, it would be step 1, step 2,step 3, step 4.Then, a new task came up which is related to step 1. So, on its side,you will put a noteand you will call that 1A.After that,there is another step.You will make it 1B.Now, 1A has two subsequent steps.So, you will put themon the side of 1Aand create the note. So, you will seea physical representationwould be created of what you have to achieve, and you literally goplucking the notes as soonas those task are completedgiving you a senseof accomplishment and alsoorganisation.Productivitymax.Number 3: The Seinfeld strategy,which is don't break the chain.Number 3: The Seinfeld strategy,which isdon't break the chain.It says that in orderto accomplish any goal,you would have to makerituals every day,and you cannotrefuse those rituals. For example,you want to lose weight by 10 kgs,and you know that going to the gym every day for 30 minutesis a ritual thatwill get you there.So, you would not breakthe 30-minutes gym ritual in a waythat at any point of time,you do not spend two dayswithout performing the ritual.So, you went to the gym for 2 or 3 or 4 days in succession. Then, you miss one day. Fine.That's okay.You will come back to it.But you will never have a situationwhere you miss 2 days in a row.So, it’s okay to miss the ritual once,and then you start again.You will go through it again, and if you ever miss it again,then you will start over again. If you miss more than one day,that means if youmiss 2 days in a row, meaning you have broken the chainand you will not be ableto achieve that goal.When you get in that mindset,that I do not haveto break the chain,it leapfrogs your productivity.That's why you would have seen aconcept of streaksin a lot of games. You play the game every day,you are accomplishinga level every day,or the measurementof walking stepsin smart watches,they have streaks,like you walked 8,000 or10,000 steps every day,you’ve been doingit for so many days.Why?Because it makes our mindpossessedthat I do not have to breakthis streak, this chain. That's what you have to do to accomplish a goal.Number 4: Eat that frog.An important principle andmade very popular in the book called Eat That Frog.Eat That Frog, by the way, is an amazing book.23 simple timemanagement techniqueswhich will make you atime management ninja beyond my course,but its most importanttechnique was eat that frog, which isthe most difficult taskmust be completed first in a day.This is the simple technique.All the task that you haveto accomplish in a daywith varying levels of difficulty,criticality, importance,pick the most important one and complete it.Eat that frog meansthat the frog whichno one wants to eat, no one eats a frog butthe important task,the difficult task thatyou don't want to do, you have to do it, my friend.You need to do it.So, eat that frog. First thing, in the morning,very first thing that you pick up.Next, SMART goals.Whenever you set agoal in your life,you do not have torandomly create a goal. “I want to be slim. I want to be rich.I want to marry a good person.”No.It has to be a SMART goal.S-M-A-R-TS means specific.The goal must be specific.M means measurable.You can measure that goal. A means actionable.You can work towards that goal. R means relevant.It means that goal isrelevant in your life.T means time-based.You must have a time framefor reaching that goal.When you bring thesethings together,you create a goalwhich is a SMART goal.Let’s use an example. Suppose you want to be fit. So, becoming fit is a random goal. No.Make it specific. “I want to lose 10 kgs in 3 months.”How would you measure it? Specific meaning,“I want to get fit in 3 months.” Great.How would you measure it?“I will get fitby losing 10 kgs.”So, I have to lose 10 kgs in 3 months.What would be the action? I would go to the gym every dayand maintain a calorie deficit.Why is it relevant?“It is relevant becauseI am overweight.” It is already time-basedbecause you planned for 3 months.When you bring thisthing together, it becomes a SMART goaland helps you accomplish that goal better.Next, the 43-folder system.It’s very interesting,particularly for people whoprioritize touch and feel.A lot of people create notes online, or through Notion,or through Google Docs,they are able to live their life.There are some people who are physical, right? They want to read on Kindle,they want to write in a notebook, they want to use a lot of pens,they want to use post-it notes,and so on.It is really good for them.Here is what you do.You take 43 envelopes.43 What does 43 mean?Basically, 31 envelopesfor the 31 days of a month,or 30 days, or 28 days,or 29 days, if it'sthe month of February,and 12 more for themonths of the year.So, 1, 2, 3, 4, all the wayup to 31, you would write it, and along with that,you would write anenvelope for each month.January, February,March, and so on. Whenever you are get a task,whenever you want to remindyourself of something,you would not put iton Google calendarand physically put itin the envelope.You could put a small letter,you could put anything thatyou want to be reminded of, and as soon as you do it,you forget about it. So, what will happen isyou wake up one day; So, let's say today is 26th June.So, I woke up on 26th Juneand I would open theenvelope of 26 June.Whatever is in it,I would take it out and that will be my reminderfor what I have to get done on 26th June.Suppose you get abill on 26th June which you have pay after 2 weeks,let's say on July 10.So, you will put a letter forit in the July 10 envelope,or you can put a small chit saying electricity bill, or phone bill, or any other bill, and forget about it.When it is July 10, you would open that envelope, you would read the letters in it,and you will knowwhat you have to do in that day.Now, this thing can beaccomplished by a diary as well.This thing can be accomplishedby Google calendar as well,or notes, or Notion or anything else,but the joy of doing it physicallyis very different because our mind is now focused on itmaking you productivebecause you see every single day what you have to dophysically.Next, the Ivy League method.This method is simple but powerful.It says that atthe end of the day,you would have to write 6 taskswhich you want toaccomplish the next day.Simple.As your day ends,right before you sleep,you would write 6things for the next daywhich you want toaccomplish the next day, and when the day starts,you will start with that. Now, why does this work?This works becausewhen you note down thosetask before you sleep,it gets stuck in your mindthat this task is still unfinished, it is incomplete,and this is scientificallyproven that our mindis more fixated oncompleting those thingswhich are still unfinished.So, when you go to bed,you will go with that feeling that I still have to do this task and I will get it done tomorrow.The next day,when you start, your mind will be ready,eager, excited tofinish those tasks,and at the end of the day,when it would be over,it will have a senseof accomplishment, plus for the next day, 6 new tasks. When you choose these tasks,it is really important that you do not choose somethingwhich you know youwould be unable to do,because then your mindwould be dejected, you would be low on confidence, and you would feel like,“Whatever task I write, I amnever able to finish them,accomplish them.So, what's the point?” And you will give up.No.Make a list of 6 (tasks) that you know you can do,have to do,and will do. See the difference.Next, the Franklin planner method. Benjamin Franklin, who wasthe president ofthe US at one time, this is inspired from his life.Benjamin Franklin used to makea good schedule of this day which had some tasks, some questions for himself,and some journal entries, and this planner method is whatpeople think is very importantand effective inincreasing your productivity. How?At the start of the day, just like I said, in the Ivy League method,you did it on the previous day,but this will be for the same day.You would beginand write down everything youwant to accomplish in your day.You'll also ask yourself questions.Any questionswhich you want to ask yourself but will be important for you in your own journey.For example,I ask myself thisquestion every day. “Did you feelthat today,you moved aheadin your understandingof what you wanted to do?” I'll say this again.“Did you today feel you moved ahead in your understandingof what you did today?”You don't have to achieve anything. Your thought process,your understanding, your perspective,did you move ahead in them or not?Because achievingevery day is difficult but moving ahead is possible. So, let’s say I have an aspiration or a goal that my education startup, which is called WebVeda,I have to make itachieve a milestone. Did I feel todaythat I moved ahead inthat direction or not?It shouldn't be, “Whatall did I achieve today? What accomplishments I made?” No.Did I move ahead or not? And I will write downyes or no and why,and this will give me clarity. And then,a journalwhich will be,“How do I feel?How I am feeling?” And this will help me narrate and sharemy emotions and my feelingswith my own self.Max productivity hack.Next, the Miracle morning or the SAVERS method.An interesting method by this guy called Hal Elrod.He says that start your daywith this morning methodor SAVERS method. SAVERS method is an acronym and its full form is,Number 1: Silence,which is equal to meditation. So, through meditation orin absolute silence,spend time with yourselfand start your day. Then, A which is affirmation, meaning repeat those thingswhich you believe inor you want to do.“I am complete. I am adequate.I can be a good person.I want to help peoplein this world.”Whatever is the affirmationthat you want to keeprepeating to yourself,you will begin with that after meditation.Then, V is visualization. You will close your eyesand in your thoughts,you will imaginewhere you want to be,what you want to do, how you want do it,and that will help you manifest what's going to happen.E is exercise. Simple.You need to put yourbody into action.Every single muscle shouldfeel that it is alive.Then, R which is reading.You have to readsomething every day,a book, a journal, an article,which helps youmove ahead in life.And finally, S is scribbling,meaning journalling.An experience where you spend time with yourself but in a written format. So, silence, affirmations,visualisations, exercise, reading, and scribbling,if you spend your timedoing this every morning,you will have the most productive day of your life.In my morning routine,a lot of these things are present.In fact, I am going tomake a videoon my morning routine very soonwhich follows the SAVERS method and I have benefited from that for the last 7+ years.Highly recommended to make you productive.Next, the Action method.It's super interesting.This action method is a mindset, and the mindset isthat whenever you are lost in thoughts,you are stuck, or if you are talking to someone, you want to conclude it with an action, “What should I do next?”In digital languageor in technologylanguage, it is called CTA,Click To Action, or it is called AI,Action Item,that we talked about it,we thought about it,we discussed it, now what should we do? Because a lot of peoplefail at this point.They talk and discussand then nothing happens. But if an action is found,then you become action oriented.Do Epic Shit is all about that. It is not aboutjust sit and think all dayabout doing something big. Something big will happen. Our life will move ahead.No.You don't have to buildimaginary castles.Action.Do.It starts with doing.It starts with action.And it says,“Every single person can think, but actually doing it is possible only for some people,and you have tobecome that person.” Here is an example.You are stuck in over thinking. “I won't get a job. Recession is going to hit.Companies are notvisiting colleges. No one is recruiting.”Okay. Think about it.Think as much as you want.No problem.After this thinking,what is the action? What are you going to do? Are you going to go back and work on your resume?Will you send cold emails?Or will you connectwith your alumni?Or will you connect witha recruitment agency? Or will you put pressure on the placement committeeto know which companieswill be visitingor you want them to invite acompany or do something else?Or would you reachout to your friends?Or would you startyour own startup? Or would you pursue your masters?Or would you freelanceor pick up an internship?What is the action?Thatmethod will change your life because after every single thought, talk and discussion, if you ask for an action,you will become such a machine of productivity,I cannot even begin to tell you.Next, the MoSCoW method.An interesting methodand a powerful method of knowing what is importantand what is not.MoSCoW method is an acronymand its full form is, Must have,Should have,Could have,Won't have.Must have: This thingis extremely important. Without it, nothing will happen.Should have: This thingshould be there and will be necessary.Could have: This thing could be there.If it is not, then itwon't be a problem.Won't have: This thingmust not be therebecause that will then disrupt it. Let's use an example.You are planning a holiday and you want to be productive.What is must have?Must have is that youshould have your air tickets and your hotel bookings.Should have, the temperatureshould be nice at that place or it shouldn’t be crowded.Could have, theplace could be cheap. Won't have, we won’tstay in a bad hotel,we want travel by bus,or we won't ask for liftfrom people on the road,whatever the case may be.You, when you decideon these 4 aspects,have clarityabout which thing is important, which is optional, and which should not be there, so as to make your pathabsolutely clear.And finally, the One thing. The one thing approach is,that Ivy League tellsyou to pick 6 things,Benjamin Franklin methodtells us to pick 3 thingsand journal them and ask questions.The one thing method tells usremove everything.Get rid of everything. One thing,every day, one thing, just one thing,the one thing iswhat you have to do,and as long as that onething is not finished, you would not move,you would not move on,you would not do anything else.You have to determinethat one thing every day. The one thing.Now, this may work for some people, may not work for some people.For example, thisdoes not work for me because in one day,I have a habit ofdoing multiple things, and I am able to do them.So, the one thing approach wastes my time.I don't measure in a day.I measure time in hours, that in that 1 hour or 2 hours or 4 hours, what is the one thing that I have to do?And then, I justwork towards that. Everything elsebecomes unimportant.Anything else I am doingwould be a distractionbecause if that onething is not happening, then nothing is happening.And that then helps me.The one thing approach.But in a day,I am able to do alot of things becauseI have assigned my hoursthrough the one thing approach.These are the advanced tools to maximize your productivity.Choosing or adopting every singleone of them is not mandatory.You have to pick up the one that works best for you,and you have to keep experimenting which could be that thing for you. Happy experiment,happy productivity. Ankur Warikoo, signing off.