Number 1The Power of MirroringActually, before that,there is a part 1 of this videowhere I shared13 psychological hacks with youwhich can make you smarter. Check it outafter this video and then, come back to it.So,Number 1Power of Mirroring.Whenever you aretalking to someonethen if you talk like a mirror,which meanstheir body language,you structure yourbody language like that.The words or thephrases they are using,you will subtly repeat them.They will begin to like you and agree with you.Extremely,extremely powerful hack.Number 2The Name GameIn a conversation,if you take someone’sname while talking to themthen instantly, a connection is made.They believe that you care about them.They believe you are listening to them.And they automaticallyconsider you not only smart but also an attentive person.Number 3The Power of SilenceIf you want someinformation from someonethen stop speaking.Look them in the eyeswhile giving thema silent treatmentwhich means stay silent.Wait.Don’t say a word.And they will automatically start speaking.And the more someone tries to speak, the more truth they will keep spilling and that is the powerand the smart hack of negotiators,particularlyin difficult situations.Number 4The Zeigarnik effectSuper interesting effect.Our brainremembers incompletethings more than others and complete things are forgotten.So, if you wantto complete a task and you don’t want to forget itthen just barelystart the task.Don’t need to complete it.Don’t even need to doa large part of it. Just starting it is enough for your brain to register that this task needs to be completed.Butdon’t make the mistakeof starting a lot of tasksbecause then the brain will be overwhelmed.Completion of so many things and so many taskswill need to be rememberedthat your brain willstart getting tired.That’s not what you want.This hack has to be usedvery, very cautiouslybut if you use itthen it’s very powerful. The Zeigarnik effect.Number 5The Foot-in-the-door TechniqueSuper amazing technique. One of my favorites.If you needa big favour from someone then ask for a small favour first, whichthey will most likely agree to. And immediately after that, ask for a big favour.It has been provenscientificallythat the chances ofthem saying YESincrease dramatically moreif earlierand recently,they said yes to you.This is used bysales people a lot.What they do isyes, yes, yesanswers they try to get from people who are trying to buy.So, imagine ifthere is a sales person in a shop.And they’ll be like, “Do you like blue color?” “Yes”“Do you like blue t-shirts?” “Yes”Whatever the case is,they try to measure thathow they get a yesbecause that seems likeagreement and it seems like a favour.And then they will ask for somethingwhich is very basic.Something like,“Can I borrow your pen please?” “Of course.Here you go.”And that’s it.After that,if they were to say, “Do you like this t-shirt?”The likelihood of that coming as a yes is a lot higher.The Foot-in-the-door technique.Number 6And websites use this a lot.Social ProofingYou can also usesocial proofing.Social proofing meansby showing thata lot of people aredoing something, you are likelierto do the same thing.An amazing example of this is a 5-star hotel.If you have stayedin a 5-star hotel, you often get to read that,“We don’t want towash towels every daybecause even at your home,you don’t wash towels every day.So, if youdon’t want your towels washed,just hang it.If you want toget towels washed, put it on the flooror in the bathtub or something like this.” And what they did was they placed a standee or asmall message boxon the counter saying, “67% of peopledon’t wash theirtowels every day.”Now, when you get this message, then you instantly feel, “I should do it too.” Now that maybe a liebut it will stillmake you act the same way. Similarly,Amazon also says, “So many people haverated this 5 stars or 4 stars.”Or Zomato and Swiggy say, “So many people have ordered from this restaurant in the last 24 hoursor 30 minutes.”That becomes social proofand gets you tobehave a certain way.You can also do the same thing.Whenever you’re trying tosell anythingor try to convince other people,bring in an elementof social proofingand you instantly geta positive reaction.Number 7The choice is yours.Extremely wonderful technique.Whenever you want peopleto agree to somethingthat you want,give them 2 choicesand then finish with, “The choice is yours.” Now this is an artbecause those 2 choiceswill be such thatyou can’t seeany difference inthose 2 choices. But they will get a sense of control.“Wow! I am getting a choice. I am getting an option.”And they will be led to believe that you don’t have a motivethat out of these 2 choices,which one do we choose? So, give them a option.The choice is yours. I use that a lot.Especially if I am working with agencies, working with partners,discussions onpricing are going on,then I will say,“You can take price A or price B, and it will have a structure. I am totally okay witheither of these two but I give thema choice because I know thatthey will not counterwith a third choice.They will go with either of these 2 choicesbecause I havegiven them control to choose.The choice is yours.Number 8The Anchoring EffectThis is a very powerfultechnique in negotiation.If you are negotiating then a good strategy and a very smart strategy isbe the first one to declare a price and keep it very highso that it is anchored.Anchored meansin a way, it is fixed.Deviating from itwill be difficult.It is scientifically proventhat whatever theanchoring amount is,the main conclusionusually settles around it. For example,if you are in asalary negotiationand the company is like, “What is your expectation?”If you tell them,for example, youwant 5 lakhs but you tell them,“My expectation is 6.5 lakhs.”So, they won’t outright refuse.What will happen is, if they like you of course,is you will most likelyland in the 6.5 lakh vicinityinstead of gettingclosed at 5 lakhs if you told them,“Whatever is themarket standardor the job budget.”Then you would haveclosed around 5 lakhs.But because you anchoredit at 6.5 lakhs,they will feel very embarrassedand ashamedto give you a numberwhich would be like 5 lakhs.Because they know thatyou will almost refuse it.You asked for 6.5 lakhs.This becomes a very smart technique.Number 9Do you rememberin our childhood, we used to play video games. Even the coin machine. In India,when we didn’t havevideo games in our homes,we would insert coins in a machineat a shop to play video gamesfor 10 minutes, 15 minutes.Do you remember?Or do you remember the music that we listenedof Backstreet Boysor maybeA.R. Rehman's musicand we would vibedifferently to it. Or do you rememberwhen we didn’t have money for foodor anything elsethen we would share maggi.Maggi used to be like this friendly food that comes in there.“Do you remember…..?”is a great way for peopleto agree with youand to give youattention.Nostalgia effect.When you share somethingwith people which makes them nostalgic,makes themremember somethingwhich is a fondmemory of theirs. Could be from childhood or from their youthbut anything that remembering itbrings a smile on their face, they will tend toagree with you more. It is so wild.There is no relationship.You are showing themtheir childhood memoriesand making themaccept something thatis not at all connected.Butthis is howhuman psychology works.It’s brilliant. Such a great hack.Number 10The Paradox of ChoiceIf a person getstoo many choices,then even if theyselect the right choice,they keep worrying that, “There were so many choices.Did I make the wrong choice?Was any other choicebetter than this?”That’s whyrestrict your choices.The lesser choicesyou give people,the more they willbelieve in their choice.And they will not regret making the decision. This is avery smart way of thinking about it.So, your friends are saying,“Where should we go?” And you’ll be like, “We could go here and here and here as well.” Not going to happen. You’ll be like,“McDonald's or KFC?Choose.”And that will get them to choose much better,fasterand even if they choose, then afterwards,they won’t regret thatwe could have gone there too. And that will help you become and appear smart.Number 11The Confirmation BiasWhat is confirmation bias? Confirmation bias is whatever beliefs we have, the things we believe in, if we listen to it again and again,we feel that our beliefhas become even stronger.And then,we start ignoring other things.So, if youknow thata personhas a belief to live with, and if you show them datawhich proves that point,they are likelyto agree with you.This is an amazing hack,especially in office settings.You know that your manager has a certain thought process,a certain set of beliefs. Whether it’s data, whether it’s people, whether it's an approach. If you show them more data to convince them that this is actually true,they will then agree with everything else thatyou are proposing because the confirmation bias traphas caught them.Number 12The Sunk-cost FallacyThis is not a hackbut a realization.Often,the amount of moneypeople have spent on something,they consider it to decide whetherI should still do it or not? For example,you paidfees for school, for college.Now you don’t like it.And you will be like, “Should I drop out? Should I change college?Or something else?” And you will tell yourself,“No.I have paid one year’s fee. I shouldn’t do it.That is calledsunk-cost fallacy.Why?Because that one year’s fee, if you cannot get it back, then it is sunk cost.Meaning an expense thatis wasted. You can’t get it back.So, it should notbe used in considerationto make any future decision. But every single personis trapped in thesunk-cost fallacy. So, if you are aware of it,that before takingany decision in life,you must not thinkabout how much time is spent? How much money is spent?How much courage,hard work would be wasted?No!It is all aboutwhere you are? And for that,to move forward,what do you need?Not that what you have done that you won’t get back.One of my favouritebeliefs in life is“Time is the biggestsunk-cost of life.”Time which is spentwill not return. So, at any point in life,never say,“Just because I have spentthis much time doing this,I am not going to change it.”Especially if that thingis not working for you.Could be a relationship.Could be a stage in life.Could be an experience.Could be a job.Anything.Just because you’ve spenta lot of time doing somethingdoes not meanyou continue doing it if it has stoppedworking for you.Number 13The Scarcity EffectSuper interesting hack.If you make peoplebelieve thatwhat they wantis in a limited amount,the value of that thingin their mind will increase. To givethe best example for this,I had a manager.I won’t tell who he was. I mean it doesn’t matter.It’s not like you’ll find him. Whenever I called him,he would start the call always with one thing.“Ankur, you have 10 minutes.Start.” Instantly.Pressure is a secondary thing.I used to feel thatthese 10 minutes were extremely valuable.So, I used to be laser focused that in these 10 minutes, whatever I wanted,my objective,the outcome that I want,I should achieve it.Everything else become noise. But if he didn’t say this.If he said,“Ankur, my dear.How was your weekend?Was it good?What else is going on? Everything good at home?Good. Let’s begin.Did you see that movie?”So, you will feel that you have a lot of time.We are chilling.Manager is my friend.You continue talking.And what will happen isyou will talk aboutall useless stuff. And that’s not a bad idea but maybethe focus that you needed, it will miss out.So, create scarcity. Scarcity for your time.Scarcity for your products.Scarcity for your service. You cannot be accessible.You need to makeyourself scarce becausethat will then instantlyincrease the value of you.That’s why the premium productsare always in limited edition.Why?It’s not like theycan’t make more.They want to createthat scarcity. This bag.This car.This wallet.Or whatever.Only these manypieces were made.And they are finished.Sold out.Sold out is thebiggest thing thatconvinces people that this thingwas very good.It was necessary. Scarcity effect.Number 14Magical.Let’s do an experiment.Suppose that you had to catch a train.9:30 wasthe departure time.You reached the station at 9:45and the trainwas gone. So, you felt bad. Did you?You did.Everyone did.It's like9:30 was the time.But you reached at 9:45.So, it was missed. Now, a different person.He also had the 9:30 train.He reached at 9:45.But when he reached,he got to know that the trainleft not at 9:30 but at 9:40.So, he too felt bad.But now tell mewhich one of them felt worse?The second one, right.The one whosetrain left at 9:40.A really interesting thing.Both of them missed the train.Neither train will return.Why does the secondperson feel worse?It’s called theJust Missed effect. Just missed effect meansthat if somethingis just missed,you feel worse than usual.That’s why it’s said that in sports,the one who wins silverfeels worse than thebronze medal winner.Because the silverwinner knowsthat he might have won gold.Bronze winner knows thathe wouldn’t have caught up.So, he is happy with bronze.And that is such a great thingto think about as a hack.If you genuinely want,and this is,I don’t mean itin a mean way,but if you genuinelywant to makepeople feel bad, you will have to think of the just missed effect.Or for your case, if somethingis just missed,don’t feel worse because the end point isyou have actually missed itwhether itwas just missedor by a large margin.You have missed it.Move on. It’s okay to feel badbut don’t feel worse just becauseyou just missed it.And number 15.This is an interesting hackespecially for dating.In the world of online dating,it’s not that good.But this used to be a big one whenoffline dating and clubbing and allwas a big thing.Not that I know a lotbut it’s also a mean hack.It’s saidthat if in a clubor a partyor in a gathering,if you enter with your friendand if your friend is not as smart as you then automatically,however smart you are,you will seem even smarter.It’s calledThe Contrast Effect. Contrast effect is thatyou are alwayscompared with someone.So, the one with whomyou will be compared,he is lesser incomparison to youthen automatically youseem better in comparison.This can be used inwhatever way you want to.I won’t get into itbut it is such an interesting way tonow think about it thatif there is a presentationin the office,then the not-so-smart colleague, I should stand with him so that automatically, I will look even smarter.Or in a clubbing/partying scenario,I will stay withthat silly friend because then automatically, I will look better.Again, as I said, it is a mean approach.So, use it forwhatever it’s worth. If you don’t want to then leave it. I just shared it.But theseare 15 psychological hacksthrough whichyour smartness quotientcan be raised without putting inany extra effortjust because you saw this video. Please like this video,share itand share it with themwho can benefit from itas you have as well. I hope this was useful. Ankur Warikoo.Signing off.