Number 1Our parent’s favourite. Revision.Revise.And here is why?There is something calledThe Forgetting Curve.If we learn anything new, how much do you think we can remember after one week?Less than 15%.Less than 15%is what we remember. 85% is forgotten,irrespective of how muchfocus we put into learning it. This is called The Forgetting Curve.Now, how can we win over this forgetting curve?By active revision.And here is a simpleprocess around that.On day 1,if you learn something new, then on day 2, revise it again.Then on day 5, revise it again.And on day 7,revise it again.When you go throughthese revisions,your retention,at the end of one monthwill be as high as50% without anyadditional revision. So, revision,that are parents kept saying,“Revise.”“Revise.”“Revise.”They were bullying you.They were actuallytelling you somethingthat is scientifically proven.Number 2Active Recall. Actually, the first 7are the difficult ones.The rest 7 are somewhat hacky and easy.And this is howwe will get to the 14th.So, number 2.Actively say it out loud. Wheneverin order to remember something, we say it actively, when parents would say, “While studying,say it out loudso that it stays in your mind.” That again is scientifically proven to help retain and improveyour memory.So, while reading anything,doing anything,if you are actively saying it, your senses would againbe listening to your voice and that will increaseyour memory retention and that is somethingthat you can also consider.Of course, it is difficultbecause when you are focused then actively saying itis not so easy.But try and make it happen.For example, you meet a new person.You meet me. And you want to remember my name because youforget people’s names.Actively,say my nameout loud.So, you’d say,“What’s your name?”“My name is Ankur.”“It’s good to meet you, Ankur.” Not“It’s good to meet you.”Ankur,as many times you can say it, try to say it.“Where do you stay, Ankur?” “Ankur, I was wondering can you drop me to the nearest shop?”Or“Ankur, can weget onto a call.” Use the name so that subconsciously,your brainretains it.Number 3Extremely counter-intuitivebut it’s true.Learn something new. Our brain is like connected dots.Not a parallel orsequential stream.So, it forms connections.And when youlearn something newand you try to remember it,if you learnsomething different then your mind gets activated a lot more.The nodes get activated.And that surprisinglyhelps you rememberthe original thing that you learnt.So, for example, if you are learning how toplay a new instrument or if you are learninga new languageor if you have a speech ora presentation,if you are tryingto remember it, pick something elsewhich could be acompletely new task.Maybe read a book.Maybe watch a new song andtry to remember its lyrics. And surprisingly,the first thingand the second thing, while not connectedwill form a connection because our brainworks in this way.Number 4Stay mentally active.The more puzzles you can do, crosswords you can do,sudoku you can do, try to do them.It’s a difficult task but if you do it,your brain will always keep working and you will continue forming these nodesthat I was talking about and that will keep your mind really sharp and attentive. In fact, this thing is a life lesson.Even in your old age,if you want to staymentally active thenplease engage in some sort of mental exercise as well.Puzzles isalways a good thing to do.And the puzzlesshould be enjoyable.So, you can just go search on Google formind puzzlesand keep using them.For 5-10 minutes a day,play it.Treat it like a game andyou will activate your mind.Number 5Regular exercise.Science has proven,research has proven thatwhen you are physically active,you are mentallyactive as well. This helps incognitive development and cognitive strength.So, if youare physically active,which doesn’t mean thatyou need to hit the gym.Every day,30 minutes for aphysical activity. Could be walking.Could be running.Could be climbing the stairs.Could be swimming. Could be playing a sport.Gym of courseis a viable option.Anything that gets your body to move because our body was made to move.That is whenyou get your mindalso activated.Number 6Enough sleep.Sleep is proven to Number 1: Reduce fatigue.So, whenever our bodyis physically andmentally tired,it starts losing the abilityand the power to retain things. It is so natural. If you are tiredthen you won’t be ableto remember anything.Remember at night,when you try toread something newor you try to work, that important presentation,that important emailand you justcan’t get it done.It is not becauseyou don’t wish toor you are not capableor you don’t intend to.No.Your body is mentally and physically tired. It needs rest. So, if you sleep properly with proper discipline.At the right timeand every day,sleeping at the same time.At the right time and every day,waking up at the same time. Your body will getused to that sleep cycle.In that time frame,it will be able to recover and your mind and your mindand physical fitnesswill beat the top of the game.Number 7Number 7Don’t stress out.Stress is provenStress is provento reduce cognitive function and the reason isbecause when you are stressed, you are activelythinking aboutwhatever is consumingyour mind andgiving you that stress.You are actively thinking about all possibilities.“This might happen.”“This too might happen.”“This shouldn’t happen.”“That shouldn’t happen.”“What if he says something?”“What if she behaves this way?”Whatever it is that’s causing you stressand your brainis now cantered on itand it requires so much effortto remain in that stressed, anxious mode thatthe last thingthe mind wants to do is we try to remember something.It not going to happen. Stress is a direct impacton your ability for your mindto not just retainbut learn something new and be active.In fact, this is proven that the people whoare in an actively stressed and anxious state,they don’t remembera lot of things. It’s like life is a blur.They don’t remember that if they met someone?If they said something to someone?Or if someone saidsomething to them?It feels likea lot of missing timeis in their life.And this doesn’t happen becausethey weren’t physicallypresent there. It was because they were not mentally present there.The mind was somewhere else and they were actively not consumingthe present moment. And these were the 7 difficult things.Stress.Exercise.Sleep.These are all effort-requiring things.So, to make it slightly simpler but it’s not a replacement. It is not going to happen if you don’t focus on the first 7 things are the next7 things which are slightly easier and hopefully,will help youget started.Number 1Take breaks.It is proven thatwhenever you give your mind a break and a rest period,it need not be too long,your brain jumps back and says,“Let’s get started.” A great example is The Pomodoro Technique.I have talked aboutit many times. A 30-minute slabwhere you work 25 minutesand take a 5-minute break.25 minutes of work.5 minutes of break.25 minutes of work.5 minutes of break.25 minutes of work.5 minutes of break.After these 4 pomodoros,you take a longhalf-hour break.What do you do in this break? Any such thingthat does not load your brain.Like it shouldn’t be thatyou open Instagram or you open YouTube.You can write something.You can read something. You can evencall someone if you want to. But it must be somethingthat doesn’t activateyour senses a lot.The best thing is close your eyes for 5 minutes,in complete peace, think about something.Or don’t even think.Just close your eyesand relax. Listen to musicor something like that.When you do that, it is scientifically proventhat this activatesyour mind and alsorejuvenates your bodyvery, very, fast and you’re back into that. After the 4 pomodoros,when your body isback in the cycle,you will take a longhalf-hour break.Andthis,even in one day,if you complete 7-8 pomodoros,which means 3.5-4 hours ofactive focus time,you’ll be surprised thatin these 4 hours,how you could complete 8-10 hours of work because you were attentively focused and your were takingbreaks.Number 2Use reminders. This is my best hack. Your brain is made for one thing.To do.So, don’t use itfor remembering. Use reminders.My whole world,for example, is on calendar.Everything that I have to dois on calendar.Whether is meeting someoneor doing something regular.A reminder to pay a bill or anything else.Uncle,aunt, brotheror sister has thrown a party.Someone’s birthday. Someone’s anniversary.Someone’s wedding.Everything is on calendarso that I don’t have to spend anyof my mental power to remember anything.Thisis a brilliant hack. Create a worldwhere you areactively recording,setting remindersso that the momentthe reminder is set,you can forget about it and you only come to itwhen you have to do it.Number 3Chunking. Super interesting but again,a powerful technique ofmaking your mindsharper and retaining a lot of things.If youtry to remembera phone number,how do you do it?It’s a 10-digit numberand you go nine, three,one, five,four, seven, three, nine,two, eight.You must do it this way ornine, three, one, five, four, seven, two, eight,three, five. I mean I have mixed the digits. This by the way,is a made-up number.Don’t call it.Ornine, three, one, one, four hundred, seven hundred.What is this? This is called chunking. Basically,an entire dataset,you divide it in small parts, you chunk it,you break itso that it becomes easier to remember that bit. Or when you get an OTP,and there wasa time when OTPcould not becopy pasted directly. So, we had to remember it.Or I'd ask my mom or dad or brother or sisterfor the OTP.“What is the OTP?” They’d say,“Three, seven,six, five,four, three.”Why? Because it becomes easier to chunk and to retain.So, this thingcan be appliedfor any technique, not justnot sirfnot sirf numbers.Not only numbers.Liketop-notch hinglish.This is like the best example. Not sirf numbers.You can use it for anything.It can be used for text also.So, if you are tryingto remember a paragraphand in it, youbreak sentences orif you are trying toremember a sentence, even that is broken into words. And that is called chunking. It’s a great wayto try and remember something.Number 4Repeat before bed.When we sleep, our braingoes into a subconscious mode, which we are not completely aware about but we know thatthe unconscious mode is a super powerful mode.We feel like we are sleeping but a lot ofbehind-the-scenes workis going on.So, the best waythat people knowthey can retain something is subconsciously.It meansthat we won’t try to rememberanything consciously.Somewhere in our mind,it will come and settle.And a unique wayof trying to do that is before going to sleep,whatever you wantto remember, read it or listen to it.And thatwill help yousubconsciously retainwhatever you want to remember.So, if you have a speechor a presentation. Before going to sleep, you go through it.If you havea dialogue to rememberor anyspeech thatyou have recorded for yourself, you can listen to it.Any song that youwant to remember, you can listen to it.Any musical instrument that you have to playand the chords or tones need to be remembered, then you can play it oncebefore you go to bed.When you do that,and then you go to sleep,your subconscious mindtakes overand something happens.We don’t know quite what but something happenswhich makes us retain that piece of information better.Number 5Stay organized.Our braincan handle an insaneamount of chaos.But the more chaos,the more clutter we remove, the more clarity it gets.For example,if you look at an Excel sheet. It’s filled with numbers.Then it becomes reallyhard for the mind tofind a pattern. But if you lookat a sequence of numbers.1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 The pattern iseasily formed that a number isone more than its previous number. And it continues.Or1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32 What is this?Every number isthe previous numbermultiplied by 2. This pattern iseasily visible becausethere isn’t a lot of noise.The same thingtranslates into the physical world as well.If your table is not organized,your mindwill feel cluttered.If on your bed,everything is scattered.All your clothes and your booksand your laptopand your phoneand your headphonesand the charger.Everything is therethen your mind will feel cluttered.In your cupboard,clothes are piled up. There is no rhythm. There is no organization.Your mind will feel cluttered.That’s why the more yourself and your worldcan be organized by you,the more your brain’scognitive load is reducedand you give it clarity. And that always helpsin retaining something new.Number 6Very interesting.But again,proven to work.Stay hydrated.If there is no waterintake in our body,we feel fatigued and our cognitive power or strength is reduced. And this is so simplebut works.Weactually nowadays drink less water.The amount we shouldactually drink,4, 5, 6 litres a day.We don’t drink that much.Often it happens thathours pass by andwe didn’t drink water.Why?Because we are notdoing anything physical that causes us to sweat.So, the actual needof our body for water isnot felt physically.And secondly,we are not doing any strenuous mentally activity.Sitting in anair-conditioned room. Fan is also working.We are sitting in the chair in front of the laptop.So, there is nothing that reallyprovokes us or tells us,“Bro, drink water.”Butif you can do it,it will actually help you.So, in front of you, keep a water bottle. While working, I alwayskeep a water bottle.The moment it is empty,I refill it.Andin the entire day,3-4 bottles areeasily consumed.It’s a 1.5 litre bottle.So, I know that I am getting about 5-6 litres of waterevery daywhich helps me keep my mind sharp.And finally. Number 7My favourite.Write it down.If youuse pen and paper,you’ll be shockedand surprised to seethe number of thingsyou can remember.And here is why? When we write something, not typing,when we write,we are sending a signalto our brainthat this is important.That’s how it happens. Why?Because writing is the slowest form of expression. Think about it.Whenever you want toexpress something, you can say itquickly.You can think quickly. You can see quickly.You can listen quickly.But if we have to write, then it takes time.And what happens is in the time it takes,all the thoughts thatare in our brain, out of them,the most powerful,relevant, important thoughts is what we need to write.And that trains our mind to know that this thing must be important.Then only we’ll write it.So, when you writesomething down,it helps you retain things faster.These are the 14 things that in this video, I havepresented for youand all of this was written beforeI started recording this video. Thisallowed meto be clear.I made mistakesbut not because I forgot these things.I had just one look and I knew exactlywhat I had to say next?I said itand video shotin one straight sequence of about 15-20 minutes.No need to remember anything.No need to understandanything else.Just bring your experience.Make notes.Your practice will be visibleand you will besolid gold.I hope through these 14 ways,your memorywill be better thanChacha Chaudhary’s brain.If you don’t know whois Chacha Chaudhary,then please pause this videoand google it right now.He is the world's smartest person. Ankur Warikoo.Signing off.