Level 1:Shame.Shame is a levelwhere we feel Shame is the levelwhere we feeldisgusted by ourselves. We are so embarrassed because we feel that we weren’t able to do anything.We won't be able to do anything. People do not love us. People won’t respect us,and we are notcapable of anything.It's predominantemotional state is humiliation.Humiliation.We feel that the entire world is taunting us.The world is responsible,and they are rightwhen they are taunting us. This is the lowest level of achieving anything.If you spend your entire life in shame,you are never going to get to any moment of accomplishment.For living our life,and for achievinganything in life, there are 15 levels.This is a concept that Irecently read in a book calledLetting Go.Dr. Darwin is the author,and it’s a very beautiful,very technical, and a veryhard-hitting book which I want to summarise for you through these 15 levels.Dr. Darwin says that to live our life,there are 3 ways. First:Survival mode.Second: Reason and Integrity mode. Third:Spiritual mode.And these 3 levelsor these three partscan we categorisedin different levels.The author says thatthere are three stagesto live your life.First: Survival stage. Second:Reason and Integrity stage. Third: Spiritual stage.And every stage hasdifferent levels.For example, survival stage’s lowest starting level is shame,which I just described.Level 2 is guiltand the predominant emotional state of guilt isblame.We keep blaming ourselves.We feel so guilty that we aredisappointing our parents,we are disappointingare siblings,we are disappointingour friends,we are disappointing ourselves.We will never doanything in life. We will never move forward, and we are constantly and constantlyblaming ourselves,or blaming someone else because that is the only mode we can think of.Our view of life is evil. The world is a bad place. I am a bad person,and we will neverbe able to move forward.But we will haveto move forward.Level 3of Survival stage which is apathy.Apathy meansyoucannot do anything.Nothing will happenin the world. However hard you work,nothing is going to happen.However much you preparefor that exam or interview, nothing will happen.However muchyou try to convinceyour parents, they will not agree. You havegiven up.So, the view of life is hopelessness.You are so hopeless that you feelthat there isno hopein anything,and that will never get you to move ahead.But there is a stage 4,and stage 4 isgrief.Griefis the stage of consciousness.Griefis the fourth levelof survival stagewhere your predominant emotional state isregret.“If only…” “If only I studied.” “If only I said that.” “If only I did that.”“If only it happened this way.”“If only it happened that way.” In regret, in “If only…” you spend your entire life, and your view of life becomes tragic.This is often seen in parents.If you remember,there are so many moments where your parents believe that lifeis tragicand they spend theirlife in regret. A lot of people who feel this in their old age that in their life,they did not doanything for themselves. They kept living for the world. They kept working.They kept earning money. They kept chasing something. They did not do anything for their own happiness, and they then feelthat grief.Live with regret and look at the world as tragic.These arethe four starting levelsof the survival stage. Level 5:Fear.Fear.Your predominantemotional state is anxiety.Youare scared.You are scared that youwill be fired from your job.You are scared that somethingmight happened to you.You are scared that somethingmight happen to your parents.You are scared thatnothing will happenin your life.You will not get that person. You will not get that job.You will not moveahead in life. Due to fear,you are unable to do anything. Your view of lifeis frightening.Everythingseems scary.Everything causesstress and anxietywithin you.That’s level 5of survival. Level 6:Desire.Desire means what you want,what you wish.So, your predominantemotional state is craving.You desire love.You desire sex.You desire substances,drugs.You desire social media.You desire money.You desireanything that makes youcrave for it,and your view of life becomes disappointing, becauseall your desirecannot be fulfilled.So, you are constantlydisappointed.I am not able to doanything in life.This is my desire.This is my wishbut I am not able to reach it.I want to achieve all this but it is not happening.So, you are constantly feeling disappointed, andSo, you're constantly craving for something, and your view of life is perpetual disappointment, because that desire does not even let you sleep. And then comesThen comesthe last levelof survival.Anger.Anger,and due to this anger,your predominant state is hate.This is where trolls are.The ones who just havehate in their lives. When they wake up every day,they want to direct alltheir hatred towards someone,and they are constantly biting.They are constantly hating. They are constantly makingthe world feel like there is hatred all around. So, their view of life is hatred. Their view of life is revengeful,and that is what limits their success.Why is this calledthe survival stage?Because these are things or emotionsor feelings that would develop for us to survive.There was a time whenif we did not havethese emotionsof shame, of guilt, of grief,of fear, of desire, of anger, we could not even stay alive, because all these were needed when welived in caves.There were lions,tigers,cows and buffaloes, and we had to fight them.We had toWe had to fight our neighbours.We had to protect our families.There were dangers of weather. There was danger of animals. There was danger of nature, and these were all necessary survival emotions.But in today's world,these emotions limit us. These are not asimportant for our survival,but subconsciously,over millions of years,these are dug into our minds, and we have tokeep moving these levels one up, one up, one up in order to achieveanything in life.Level 8:Pride.Pride's most dominant emotional stateThe most dominantemotional state of pride is disgust.You feel disgusted by people.There was a state of shamewhere you feltdisgusted by yourself. But now,you taunt peoplebecause you are sofull of attitude, so full of pridethat you feel thatpeople are useless.So, you taunt every person, and your view of life becomes demanding.You are the bosswho thinks heknows everything. “What do you know?” “You are dirt.”And they keep demanding. “Work.” “Do this.”“Do that.”And the never actwith respect. That is what pridedoes to you.That’s Level 8. Level 9 is when things begin to get interesting,because now it isthe reason and integrity phase.This has suddenly become positive emotionsfrom the ‘negative’ emotionswhich were needed forthe survival till now.But in today's world,they limit you.Number 9 is courage.Courage. Bravery,and your dominantemotional state is affirmation.“I can do it.”“I will do it.” “I will work hard.”“I am not scared.”“Beyond my fearslies my victory.” That is your emotional state,and your view of the world is feasible.“It is possible.”“We can do it.” “It could be done.” And that makes you move forward.Level 10:Level 10:A beautiful state to be in.Neutrality.Neither too high,nor too low.Neither too good,nor to bad. Non-aligned.Neutral.And when you are neutraland when you get to thatlevel of neutrality,your dominantemotional state is trust. You trust people.You trust things.You trust thatthings will work out, and your view of the world is satisfactory.You are satisfied. You are not too excited, not too sad,not going too fast, not going too slow.You are in a balanced state in living your life.That's level 10.Level 11:Level 11: Willingness.To agree.And your emotionalstate in that is optimism. “We can move forward.”“We can do something big.”“We can go to great heights.”And your view ofthe world becomes hopeful.You are hopeful about where you will be.You are hopeful aboutwhat the world can do. You are hopeful about yourself.You are hopeful aboutthings happening to you in a positive manner.This is a positive emotion.This is a positive levelin the reason and integrity stagewhich will help you move forward.Next level:Acceptance. Accepting things, and your dominant emotional state is forgiveness.You know how to forgive,because you knowhow to accept. You don't look at people in a way whereif they do anything wrong,then they cannotdo anything right.You know how to givepeople a second chance.So, your view ofthe world becomes harmonious. You know thatwith people,by walking with them,by taking them forward with you is how you can move forwardbecause that's the only way to win in life. And the last levelin the stageof reason and integrity is Reason.Cause,and the emotional state,the dominant onethat you feel is understanding.You understand things.You know how to get into the details.In your heart,you carry not justa level of knowledgebut also a level of understanding,within yourselfand your view ofthe world becomesmeaningful.You find meaning in everything.You can accept themeaning of everything.You can appreciate it,and you understand the other sidewhile still maintaining yours.That is the level at whichThat is the levelat which you havereached the maxof reason and integrity,and beyond this,an extremely beautiful, spiritual stage begins,and its first level is love.Love,and its dominant emotional state isreverence.Because you love people, you respect them.You do not respectpeople because they have authority.You don't respect them becausethey are parents, or your boss,or your senior.You respect them because youlove people,and you know how to love,and your view of the world becomes benign.It becomes blissful.It becomes beautiful. It becomes joyful,and that remains in the step towards success,which takes you to the next level,and that is Joy.There is a big difference between love and joy. Joy is a kind of happinesswhich is differentfrom peace, and that is the next level.Joy is like happiness.Your predominant state is serenity. You are happy.Whatever is happening,you are happy.You are always smiling.You always have a glowing face,and you are conductingyourself in such a mannerthat the view ofthe entire world, that become complete for you.You do not feelthat in this world, if there were anything else, then it would be complete.If something weren't there, then it would be better. No. You feel that the way the world is, in a way, it is complete. Through their efforts,every person is trying to makethis world a beautiful place,and through your happiness,you are experiencing that.The next level is peace. Peace,and that makes your dominant state as bliss.And there is a big difference between happiness and peace,between joy and peace.Joy is what you feellargely because ofwhat's happening outside. Peace is what you have within. Peace is alwayswithin us. It comes from within,and your dominant view of the world becomesperfect.Not complete. Perfect.That this world is perfect.There is no faultin this world, and thatis almost closeto being godlike. So, the lastand the final stageof achieving anything in life isEnlightenment.The Buddha Stage, because in that stage, your dominant emotionalstate is ineffable. Nothingcan shake you.Anything, in any condition,cannot force you toexperience any emotion.Your view of life becomes ‘as is’.“This is the world.” “This is the instant.”“This is the moment.” “This is the truth.” “My past,I cannot change it.”“My future, I cannot control it.”“This is the moment,and it's the perfect moment.It's the most beautiful moment,and in this moment,I do not want anything else, because in this moment, I have everything.” And that makes your journey to successcomplete.When you look atthese 15 levels, and you identify thatin your life right now,where you are, and it is not necessary that you need to be at a stage. It might be possible thatfor different things, you are at different stages.In your professional journey,you are in a differentemotional state. In your personal journey,you are in an emotional state.In an another journey,you're in differentemotional state,and to identify where you arewill tell you where you have to go to, and how far are youfrom enlightenment.Maybeall of us willnot even achieve it,but knowing about that step, and learning thathow far are we from it,and how many more stepsare left to reach it is an important partof undertaking that journey.In this book,everything about these15 beautiful steps is explained.How every single stage does its job? But when it is done,we must move onto the next level. We must move on to the next stage,because if we areunable to move on,and we get stuck there,then wherever we wantto get to in life,the point that wewant to get to,maybe that will beout of our reach.I hope this was helpful.Ankur Warikoo.Signing off.