Number 1: Think and Grow Richby Napoleon Hill.It is a brilliant book on personal finance,investing,and how to think aboutwealth creation,In this book, Napoleon Hillshares 13 principleswhich according to him,and I would agree with himto a large extent,are needed for a mindsetto become rich and to grow money.These 20 books,I am ready to give them awaynot to just one person,but to 10 people.So, 10 people would get a hamper of these 20 books.How?How? A 3-step process.Step number 1: Subscribe. It is open only for subscribers. So, this is my way of getting followers and you gettinggood quality books.Number 2:Pinned comment and description have an eyeballs link. Click on it,enter your email address,and a unique linkwould be generatedwhich you would have to use.Number 3:You have to share thislink with everyone.When you do it,people would click that linkand come back to this video.They would learn somethingthrough this video,they would get to knowabout these 20 booksand this videowould gain visibility.10 people who generate thehighest number of views, they would getthis set of 20 books eachhand delivered, not hand delivered,home deliveredthrough most likely Amazon.Within 2 weeks,the winner will be announced.Number 2:The Alchemist by Paulo Coelho.Number 2:The Alchemist by Paulo Coelho. The Alchemist is a beautiful book, particularly for your 20s because it tells usto chase our dreams.Do not let them die.The life you will have, it will be smallif you chase somethingthat you don't want,and it will be long and beautiful if you do what your heart says,what you want from yourself,from life.A brilliant book.I think a must read for everyone in their 20s.Number 3: You Can Heal Your Life by Louise Hay. In our 20s,we often realise that in our life,we have trauma of varying types.It could be physical trauma, or mental trauma, or childhood drama,or relationship trauma,or due to college,or exam anxiety,or anything else.This book will teachyou how to deal with it,and it is particularly important in your 20s because ifyou learn this method in your life,then any forthcomingobstacle, trauma or incidentswhich would shake you,they would never be ableto completely crush you. You will stillbe stationary, rooted, but in that moment,you will know what to do to heal yourself.Number 4: Rich Dad, Poor Dad by Robert Kiyosaki.Mentioning this book was mandatory. This is a book which, through the story of two dads,teaches you the importanceof money in life.A poor dadwho worked his whole lifewith dedication and hard workbut was able to earn asmall amount of money,and a rich dad who,with intelligenceand a unique thought process,was able to earn a lot of money.What is the differencebetween their behaviours is what Robert Kiyosaki in thismasterpiece classichas shared with all of us.I read this book atthe age of 19 or 20,and I remember distinctly thatmy mind was blownwhen I realised that the things you buy,they are not assets.Only some thingsare assets,and assets are those thingswhich earn money for you.The things you spend money on are not assetsbut a liability,and this simple ideology, and many similar ideologies,are described in this book,and they are ready to teach you.Number 6:The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People by Steven Covey.A really beautiful book. A classic considered for almost everyone out there which tells usthat the highly impactfuleffective people,the people who areable to do everythingin their life that they want to, what are the sevenhabits that they have which define them.And if we look atevery single person,what are the seven habitswhich connects every single person like this? A brilliant incredibly powerful book,particularly for youngsters because it provides a first viewof what it takesto be successful and to be effective in life.Number 7:Don’t Sweat the Small Stuffby Richard Carlson. A simple bookwhich tells ushow small things becomereally big in our life,and why do we let thembecome big enough.How can you deal withthese small things? Using things that are simple, approaches that are simple, mindset that is simpleyet powerful.A cute bookwhich very simply sharessome powerful lessonsthat I believeeveryone in their 20sneeds to know of.The hamper of these 20 bookswill be sent to 10 people.How? 3 steps. Number 1:Subscribe to the channelbecause that the onlyway you will be eligible. Number 2: Pinned commentand description havethe eyeballs link,click it and generate aunique link for yourself. Number 3:Share the link with everyone.The ones who generate maximum number of views or clicks for that link, they will be rewardedthis set of 20 books as a hamper.One thing is important.A lot of click fraud happens in it. And trust me,we know this technology.So, if you indulge in click fraud, you would be disqualified. Pleasedon't change your IP address, or mask your IP addressand generate false clicks. It would not work, my friend.I have spent a lot of timein the technology industry.So, I know something about it.Number 8: Who Moved My Cheese? by Spencer Johnson.A book that I readat the age of 21. It's a really thin book but a really interesting book, and it will basicallyteach you life’sfundamental.I will tell you the fundamental,genuinely. I will not tell you what it isbecause then, the importanceof the book would be lost, but an interesting storyof a mouse,and through it, weget a lesson for life.Number 9: The Celestine Prophecy by James Redfield.A really different book.I don't know how many ofyou believe in science that,this universe is always ready to tell us something, and it drops many hints.“You should learn this.You should understand this.”How do you understand them?How do you interpret them?How do you make sense of them? It's basically a spiritual book, but a spiritual book for your 20s which is a very interesting read.Highly recommended.Number 10:Number 10: The Secret. A book thatyou might have heard of. You might have read it. The secret is a book;remember that dialogueof Shahrukh Khan,“If you truly wish for something, the universehelps you to achieve it.”Basically,this is the story of the secret,butnarrated in a powerful fashion.It has helped millions of people get out of distress because when we feelthat life is stuck,we feel helpless,we feel that nothingwill happen in life,we are scaredabout what will happen in exams, what will happen in our job,what will happen with our parents, what will happen in love,you realise that there isa method to the madnesswhen it comes to the universe. Your own lifehas somethingwhich if you manifest,then your desiremight be fulfilled.But the way to manifest it, the belief of believing in it, where does that come from?How is it manifested? This bookwill teach you that.Number 11: The Power ofPositive Thinking by Norman Peale. A book that tells youhow to develop positivethinking in your mind, in your life,in your heart, in your experience,in your world view becausethat will set you up for life.There is so much negativity,there is so much overthinkingfilled in our life that we are crushed by it.But if there is a waywhere we can adoptsuccess-oriented thinking, where we can think howcan we win in life, move forward in life,achieve our goals,how powerful wouldthat thinking be?And every single person,especially in their 20s,wants to adopt this thinking. How? Through this book.Number 12: Men Are from Mars,Women Are from Venus by John Gray.An interesting book.I read it at theage of 22 or 23. I was educated in a boys' school,and studying in boys’ school hasan advantage and a disadvantage.The advantage was that I know everything about boys.I am aware of theirsmallest details. I can look them in the eyeand know what this boy is thinking. But about women,about girls, about the opposite gender,I have no idea.I don't know how they think. I don't know how the behave.I don't know why theysay the things they do, or do the things they do.This book was a reallyinteresting introduction.In fact, it was interesting becausejust like I said,I started reading itat the age of 22 or 23when I was in the US,and this waswhen I was alreadyin a relationship. I was committed with Ruchi,and everything had happened.But I stillwanted to know thatthe opposite gender,the opposite sex, how are they really opposite,and what is it that'sopposite about them? Are they truly opposite or not?And this book was abrilliant introduction to that question,and I got the answer to that.If you are a boyor a girl, picking this bookis a must becausethat will tell youwhat the opposite gender is all about.Number 13:How to Win Friends andInfluence People by Dale Carnegie. A classic and anincredibly important critical book. This book,irrespective of whetheryou are an extrovertor an introvert, it will teach youhow you can make friends, win them over,and influence people,which is such apowerful skill in life.Especially in your 20s,you are trying toimpress so many people.You are trying toimpress a partner.You are trying to impress yourparents since your childhood.You are trying toimpress your recruiter.You are trying toimpress your manager.Your employees and colleagues, sorry, not employees,you are trying toimpress your colleagues. And then,you are trying toimpress the bank manager because you want a loan.You are trying to impressthe credit card company because you want a credit card. So on and so forth.It is all over.How do you go about doing that? How do you actually make friends? All of this is wonderfully laid out in this book.Number 14: Chicken Soup for the Soul.A classic again, and a brilliant book for people in their 20s.These are motivational storieswhich will heal you, which will inspire you,which will, of course, motivate you,which will influence you,which will encourage you,which will challenge you,and I think the joy of this book isthat it is such simple language, powerful, much needed in the 20s,and certainly something that benefits a lot of  people when they read it.Number 15:The Four AgreementsNumber 15: The Four Agreements by Don Miguel Ruiz.Four simple promiseswhich you can make to yourself, and to redefine your life. For example,be impeccablewith your words.Salman Khan's dialogue, “If I make a promise,then I don't evenlisten to myself.” That's precisely it.Number 2: Don't take anything personally.Fundamental of life.There are a lot of people who donot know anythingabout your life. Yet, if they say something,then please do nottake it personally because they know nothing about you.You know the full of you,not them.Number 3: Don't make assumptions. Simple.I often say this, “My friend, why are you assuming? Just ask.Just ask directly.Why do you think your boss isthinking something about you,and your partner is thinkingsomething about you,and your parents arethinking something about you?Just ask them.”If you don't ask, the answer is always noand before you assume,do this crazy thing. Just ask.Number 4:I won’t tell you because then,in a way, I would havetold you the entire book.I would’ve given you the summary. Then why would you read it? Read the book. It’s a beautiful book.Definitely, it’ll help you.Just like I said, these 20 books will be given to 10 people as a hamper in three ways.Number 1: Sorry, not three ways,in three steps.Number 1: Subscribe to the channel because it's only eligible for subscribers. Number 2:Pinned comment anddescription have a link.Click it and generatea unique link. Number 3: Share the link with everyone. The top 10 peoplewho would generatemaximum number of views through that link,they will get thishamper of 20 books.Within 2 weeks, this result will be announced.Number 16:The Road Less Travelled: A New Psychology of Love,Traditional Values and Spiritual Growth. The name looks really heavy,but it’s a great introduction to all of these concepts for people in their 20s. For that matter, anybody beyond that as well.Definitely a very good read.Number 17:Very importantin today's hybrid world.The book is calledHomebody:The book is called Homebody: A Guide to CreatingSpaces You Never Want to Leave. This is a book which practicallytries to tell youthat the place you try to settle into,you try to live in,how can you make it your own? And in the world of hybrid,where you areat work sometimes, or in the office, you are at home sometimes, maybe you are travelling.You can be anywhere. The entire team could be remote. How do you really make a café,your corner of a room,your office desk,your space productive,inclined towardsyour personality,feeding your curiosity, and helping you focus.Brilliant book.Certainly something which every 20-year-oldshould read because the worldis only going to become like that in the future.Number 18: Atomic Habits by James Clear.How could I notmention this book?A book that tells youthat through extremelysmall habits,how can you achieve great results?For example,did you know that if you become just 1%,just 1% better every day, then at the end of the year,you would’ve become37 times better. It means every day, if you read 100 words, and the next day,if you read 101 words.The next day, it's 102 words.The next day, 103 words.The next day, 105 words.If you rise at just 1%,at the end of the year,you would be able to read3700 words every day.That's the beauty.Butit's opposite is also true. If you deteriorate 1% every day, meaning you read 100 words, and then you say,“I don't feel like reading today. Let's stop at 99 words.”The next day, let's stop at 98. The next day, 97 words.The next day, 95 words.At the end of the year,you will be down to3 words per day.Your entire capability would bereduced to just3% of what it was.This is the powerof atomic habits.Extremely small habits which slowly and steadilywill make you an amazinglycapable person.Next, Courage to be Disliked.A book that will tell youhow you could be prepared toconsume the perspective of others. Whatever people say about you, whether it bad or good,or if they say somethingentirely wrong,how do you have the courage to still be okay with that?It's such animportant book, right?In your 20s where everyonewould be judging you,and you feel thateveryone is judging you,how do you really notallow that to get to you?This book will teach you.Next, The Subtle Artof Not Giving a F*ck.A book that will tell you thatyou do not need to takeeverything seriously in life. There are some things which you can ignore,and be okay with that.So, the subtle artof not reactingto everything thatis happening to you.This book by Mark Manson is a really interesting book. It’s a new book but despite that, it has made a mark in the minds ofmost young people.And finally, book number 20,which you can get as a hamper,Tools of The Titans by Tim Ferris.This is not anybody's story.Instead,it is a summary of some of themost famous people in the world.Tim Ferris has avery famous podcast called The Tim Ferris Podcast,and he often asks his guest somebeautiful questions in the podcastaround what made them successful. In this book, which is a really thick book,all of that is summarised.So, imagine you arelearning from thebest of everythingthat the world has to offerin a single book.Quite thick,but a really powerful book.Tools of The Titans.These were 20 bookswhich I feel every 20-year-oldor people in the 20s would need. These 20 books could be yours.How?Number 1: Subscribe.Number 2: Generate a uniquelink through the eyeballs link. Number 3: Share that link,and the more you are able to share and generate clicks,the more you will be able to succeed. Top 10 winners for this 20-book hamper would be announced in 2 weeks.Number 1:I have shared the directlinks to the books. So, please you can buy them, and not be in that contest. If you do this,then I earn an affiliate income through Amazon.100% of that affiliate income is used to the sponsorship of kids’ education who can'tafford it themselves. In 2021, we contributed 24 lakh rupees towards kids’ education.In 2022,this increased to 54 lakh rupees.And if we get your support, then in 2023,it would be even more.All of this goes towardsthe education of kids who cannot afford their own education.So, thank you so much for making this contribution.You don't have to payanything extra. I don’t have to bear the brunt of anything. It is all funded by Amazon.Yay!Win-win.So, please buy the booksdirectly from the links,and in order to qualifyfor this contest,subscribe, share the eyeballs link, and then wait for 2 weeksto announce the 10 winnerswho will get the hamperof 20 books. I hope this was awesome.Ankur Warikoo, signing off.