Number 13 signs of a lifelong friend.Number 1They have seenyour worst times but they are still with you.Number 2Whenever you are with them, you feel safe and comfortable.You feel that in a way, that is your home. And number 3They respect your boundaries. They understand thatyou are a personand respect yourlikes and dislikes.Number 23 things that collegehas taught us wrong.Number 1Your attendance is important. The truth is that not your attendancebut attention is important. A lot of people were therewho were present in the classbut their mindswere somewhere else.Number 2Your degree is your identity. The truth is what youdo with that degree becomes your identity. Your experiences,learnings and lessons are your real identity.And number 3The purpose of college isgetting a job andearning money. The truth is that the purpose of college isgetting experienceand exposure as well.College is a journeyto know and understandourselves betterand we shoulduse college as muchas possible for this purpose.Number 33 signs that you area beautiful person.Number 1You encourage people.You help them.Not because it willbenefit you in returnbut because if you help them, it will be good for them.Number 2You listen to people.Not to answer backbut to understand them. And number 3You are honest.You know that youmight say something thatmight hurt thembut you also know thatlistening to the truthis important for them.Number 43 things that keep me alive. Number 1 Tennis.Since a few years,I play tennis every dayand I really like this game.Number 2Going to gymand working out. Our body is a temple in which we live.And taking care of this temple is our most important task.And number 3Intermittent fasting.Recently, we have startedfasting for 20 hoursevery dayand take meals onlytwo times a day.And I feel thatI should have startedthis habit 5 years ago.Number 5If you live with your parents,then 3 things for you.Number 1Listen.Try listening to them.Talk to themabout their lives. Try listening to their stories.You will see adifferent side of them.You will see that they were a person first and then they became parents. Number 2Make them awareabout the world.The world has changedat a fast paceand they might not haveunderstood all of it.It is your responsibilityto help them seethe new world.Not because theyshould listen to youbut because helping themunderstand is your duty.And even after all this, if things are not goodthen get financiallyindependent and move out.Because sometimes,to save a relationship,you need to get away from it.Number 63 signs you are anemotionally mature person.Number 1When others are happy,you genuinely feel happy.And if that happiness iswithout any jealousy or envythen you areway ahead in thejourney of beingemotionally mature. Number 2 You express gratitude.Whatever and howevermuch you have,you never go intocomplain mode.Instead, you are alwaysthankful for everything.And number 3 You can say SORRY.At the right time,without anyone telling you to,if you can say SORRYthen you areemotionally mature.Number 73 times in lifewhen I felt life was over.Number 1 After 12th standard,for 2 years,I tried getting into an IIT. But it didn’t happen.Every year, if felt like my life was over. Number 2When I was 20,I went to the U.S. for my PhD.After 2 years,I felt that I was not happy. So, I came back to India.It felt likemy life was over.And number 3In 2019,after resigning from my startup,I decided to start my lifeall over again.And due to Covid,our lives and our ways of livingwere changed immensely.Only 5 months ofcash was left.And I felt that my life was over.But here I am today and so are you.Life isn’t overuntil you believe it’s over.Number 8At the end of the year,3 things to do.Number 1 Look back at the last year and make a list of things that make you happy,things where yousee progress.If the last year wasdifficult for you,still there would be momentswhere you felt happy.Write about them.Number 2All your loved ones,call them and tell them how thankful you are to them. Number 3For the new year, develop a new habit.Not a resolutionbut a habitthat becomes your identity.Number 93 habits for life.Number 1After you wake up,the first half hourfor yourself. No phone.No book. No exercise.No person. Just you and your thoughts.That is the best start to the day and a habit for life.Number 2Every day, engage inany physical activity.Not necessary that youshould go to the gym.You can go for a walk.Or you can take the stairs. It must be something that makes your body feel that it is alive.Number 3Be thankful.Always remind yourselfthat your life hasmany luxuries thata lot of people willnever get in their lives.Whatever you have, however much you have, always be grateful for that.Number 10You are not being successful.3 reasons for that.Number 1You are still stuck intoxic relationships.These relationshipscan be in your job.They can be in your life.And you can blame them.But it is equally your faultthat you are stuck inthose relationships.Number 2You are still askingpeople for validation.You are still scared ofwhat people mightthink about you. And number 3You ignore your health.You ignore your physical health and your mental health.Due to this,your mind is tired and it needs you.Don’t ignore your health.Don’t ignore yourself.Number 11If you are in the rightrelationship or not, 3 questions to know that.Number 1If this person makesme a better personor not?Because at theend of the day,every relationship shouldmake you a better person. Number 2 In front of this person,can I be 100%truthful and honest?Because if yes,then they are special.And number 3Are my boundaries respectedin this relationship or not?If answers to all3 questions is yesthen this relationshipis the best for you.Number 123 wayshow we get manipulatedin relationships.Number 1They apologize to usbut they don’t change.So, that apology is nothing but a manipulation.Number 2If they do somethingwrong to us and we try to tell them,then they remind us of timeswhen they didsomething good for us.They never accept thewrong things they do.And number 3 They generalize.“You always do this.”“This happens all the time.” “This happens every day.”Everything you do is never in the moment and it is generalized.Number 133 weird ways to stay happy. Number 1Every day, when you wake up, wake up slowly.Don’t wake up in a hurry.Don’t wake up just in time. Yourself,your body, your thoughts,give them the timeto wake up. Number 2Stop complaining.The more you complain,the more sad you will bebecause you feel thatsomeone else is thereason why you are sad.And number 3Spend time with children. After watching kids,after spending time with them, life feels beautiful.You get to realisehow important islearning in life? How important is playing?How important isstaying happy?Number 143 signs that this relationshipis not right for you. Number 1You are always blamedfor the fact that you don’t understandwhat they are going through. Number 2You are constantlyin conflict. A relationship thatshould give you happiness, give you peacegives you only stress,anxiety and sadness all the time. Number 3 What you are,you constantly need toapologize for that.Number 153 enemies of success in life.Number 1 Comfort zone.When you are ina comfort zonewhere you don’twant to change.You know thatchanging yourself will make your life better. But you are scaredbecause you areaddicted to comfort.Number 2 Making yourself believethat you can’t do it.You cannot do it. And number 3Always looking forthe easy way out.Always tryingto walk the pathwhere a shortcutis available. Something happens quickly. But everything in lifethat is valuabletakes time,takes hard work.Number 16Stay away from these3 type of people.Number 1The people who messwith your mind.They play with your mind.They never respect you. Number 2The people who wantimportance from youbut they never giveyou any importance.And number 3Whenever you give themany feedback,when you try to tell them that maybe they are wrong, they blame you instead.Remove such peoplefrom your life.