Any benefit approach.Have you heard of it?Maybe not.I’ll tell you what it is.Any benefit approach is that wheneveryou use a product or service, you ask yourself that,“Whether this thing willgive me any benefit?However small it isbut will I get it?”And if the answer is yesAnd if the answer is yes then for this small benefit,all the damages this product or service will cause,you ignore it anduse this product or service. The biggest example of this is ‘Social Media’.Social media has benefitsthat you can connectwith your friendsand your family.You can know the happeningsaround the world.You can entertain yourself.But social media has many,unbelievably many damaging effectswhich we ignorebecausewe adopt theAny Benefit Approach while approaching social media.This any benefit approach,Cal Newport’s bookDeep Work introduced this.And in this video,I will share with you 5 such waysthrough which you cando any task, with full dedication, with complete focus,with full attention.But for that,these 5 thingsmust be adopted.And the first one of them is: Distance yourselffrom social media.Social media is a trap.It is importantto recognize thatworld’s best scientistsand engineerswork hours just for one thing.That how can you get addicted to their product!Whether it’s Instagram or Twitter or LinkedIn or TikTok or Discord or anything else.If you look at themon your screen once,they want you to just swipe up, swipe upand swipe up and keep consumingthis product for hours.So, we don’t haveany hope in hell that we will resist.“No, I just wantit for 2 minutes.Just 2 reels andI’ll move on.” No!This will hook you.So, the only way to get into deep workand the first approach is:Distance yourselffrom social media.How? Notifications.Turn them off.For social media,install time blockers.Every single app where you waste your time,put a time limit on it. For example,on all my social media apps;despite that I ama content creator.This is, in a way, my life.I have put a 1-hourdaily limit on every app.And whenever that1 hour is finished, my access is restricted.I can extend itwith a passcodebut I don’t havethat passcode.My wife has the passcode.So, if I need it; like for Instagram Live on Fridays or for something else orit actually took memore than 1 hour for whatever I am doing,I ask her to enterthe passcode. I don’t ask for it.And that’s the way I distance myself from social media. No notifications.Anything else,it is only and only when I have dedicated time to consume itgetting me into deep work.Number 2. Super interesting concept!Fixed Schedule Productivity. What does it mean?It means that it is scientifically proventhat wheneveryou give yourself, for doing a task,a fixed time, make a fixed schedulethen the task should be done in that time.Through that discipline,you task will most likely be completed.This is the opposite of Parkinson’s Law.Parkinson’s law isan interesting law. It saysthat whenever,however much time you get, you work willautomatically expandto consume that time frame.Consume the time frame?! It will fit the time frame.However much timeyou give yourself,your task willincrease accordingly to fit that time frame.So, if you coulddo a task in 1 day,you will do it in 1 day.But if you say,“Now,let’s give it 3 days.”So, the timeis 3 days nowbut the task will feel like itcould be done in 3 days only.It wouldn’t bepossible in 1 day. It’s almost as ifwork expands to fill in the time.That is Parkinson’s lawand its exact oppositeis the FixedSchedule Productivity.You will tell yourself,“Every day,I will work for 4 hours.”“Every day,I will work for 8 hours.”And when that time ends, I will move on.I will not extend it.And this is a generaltendency in Indiathat we work formany hours a day.We spend hoursin the office.After going home,we are still working.We are always working.Not because our bossesare always monitoring us.Not because the work is too muchbut because we feel that the work never ends or it should never end.Wrong approach. Set a routine. Set a deadline.Set a time limit.And stick to it because when you do that,you don’t burn out.Really important.The more you keep workingand make your workyour entire life,the faster you will burn out.You get time to explore other aspects of life.Other hobbies. Focusing on relationships.Introducing to orlearning somethingthat you always wanted to do.You get time with yourself.Whether you spend it walking or in meditationor in musicor anything else but basically,you get time for yourself.And most importantly,you get time off work which,the moment I saythe 3rd point,surprisingly helps you back.Because you won’tbe working actively.You will be working passively,which brings meto the 3rd point.The regular everydaythings in your life,which you do every dayrepetitively,use that time to think. Whatever you want to think. For example,why does it happenthat while bathing,you get the best thoughts,the best ideas? What all things you can do? Because while bathing,your body is soused to bathingthat we don’tfocus a lot on it.The soap we have.The shampoo we are using.All thisis automatic. It is set.So, we are using that time,which is a repetitive task to think about something which we usually don’t get the time to think.That’s why That’s why I feel so bad,and even for myself,that there wasa time when weused to go for ‘Do Epic Shit’,we wouldn’t take our phonesbecause phones weren’t there.Or the high-speedinternet wasn’t there.So, at that point,while sitting on the pot,we would think.And good thoughtswould come in our mind. Good ideas would come.What we would do in our day?That planning would be done. What we had to tell others? We could think of that.Now,before sitting down,we open up our phones.Now,before sitting down,we open up our phones.In fact, a lot ofpeople use phonesspecifically during that time. And that has just takenaway such an importantpart of deep work,which is principle 3and it’s proven.The repetitive tasks of your day.Use that to think about things. It could be exercising.You’re going to the gym or you’re walking or you’re swimming.Use that timeto think about things.If you are listening to musicthen while listening,think about somethingthat gives you more clarity.Something that you don’tactively or passivelythink about.And that brings me to the2nd point that Iwas discussing.That when you make a fixedschedule productivity routinethen at that time,you are activelythinking about the task.But when you combine itwith repetitive tasksfor thinking.Absolutely openly. There is no agenda.There is no goal. There is no motive.No need to impress anyone.You actually startto work towards that work,task,activity, project, internship,relationship,anythingwhich is consuming your time and your mind.So, use repetitive tasksto think about things that you usually don’t.Number 4.And this is the best.The core ofDeep Work by Cal Newport,the book.The 4DX framework.This framework is a priority frameworkthat the most ofyour disciplineshould go towardswhich thing?And what shouldbe its priority?Discipline number 1.It says that all your priorities,all your focus,within these 4 disciplines, it should be focused and in this order. First discipline.Discipline number 1.The thing that iswildly important. We always know thatwhat is the mostimportant thing for us?We usually ignore it. It might be our health.It might be ourrelationships.It might be timewith ourselves.It might be our work.But whatever we believeis wildly important; Not like,“Um….It is okay.” No!Unbelievably important.If this is not in my lifeor if I don’t focus on thisthen my might not even exist. And that thingis picked up first.Your entire discipline,your entire focus,your full attentionshould firstly gotowards this thing. And what it does isit brings ina certain sense ofimportanceand prioritization.For example,God forbid if somethinghappens to your health,then why we drop everything and focus on it?Because we know thatas long as wecan’t even move,as long as ourhealth is not right,we won’t be ableto do anything.So, it must be fixed first of all. We don’t like that feeling of being sick,being tired,being unhealthy.Butwhy do wait till then? For 32 years, why did I wait to get healthy? Because at any point,I did not give that importance to my health that I know today is wildly important.Whatever happens,if there is life,then there is the world.If not, then nothing is left.And that is something I realised so latein my life which I would not want all of you to do.Discipline 1.Focus on the thingsthat are wildly important.Then, Discipline number 2.Every effortdoes not create equal impact.And you know that for a living. You know thatyou spend 4 hourson one thing, 4 hours on a second thing, 4 hours on a third thing.These 3 will havedifferent outcomes.But hours spent were same.What is required is a measurement that your effort creates maximum impact or outcome in which condition?For this,Pareto effect.80-20 rule.Might have heardthat80% of the results are produced by20% of the action or steps. So, you need to identify what is the thing where So, you need to identifywhat is the thing where putting effortgives you maximum impact,reward or outcome?That has to be the second discipline or focusfor your deep work.Whereveryou get the most impact.For example,you know as a student that these chaptersare my strongest.In them,I can alwaysget good marks.So, you will focusa lot of energy there because you know that these will be asked and if they do,you will be able to secure the highest. Or if you work and you know that you need to make a presentation.In the presentation,what would takeyour maximum effort?Either making the presentationor the research forthe presentation. If you focus on the researchthen rest of the presentation will be made in no time. So, you will focus 80% of your energyon researching aboutthe presentation.Making sure that the content of every slide, you know that beforehand. Once that is known,making slides will be easy.And that will bea quicker thing.But if the contentis not rightthen no matter howbeautiful slides you make,no one will be applauding you.No one will be praising you.So, you have to bring inthat level of clarity.Discipline number 2that wherewill your effortproduce maximum impact or outcome? Discipline number 3.Whatever you do,you keep score.What does it mean?It meansa fundamentalscientific process.That to improve anything,firstly you needto measure it.If you don’t knowhow much you weighthen how will you reduce it?No.First of all,you need to measure it.And if you regularly measure itand stay focused ondiscipline 1 and discipline 2,then slowly, that measurement will tell you everything about your progress.This is critical. For example,I am on a fitnessroutine right now.And every day,I record my weight.Every week,I record all my measurements.I take photographs of myself. I answer questions thatmy fitness trainerasks me every week.And through that,I have a score.Every single week,for all past weeks,I have all the information.What was my weight everyday? Every week,what were the measurementsof my body parts?How did I feel that week when Ifollowed my dietbut didn’t exercise?Or the week when Idid not follow my dietbut I exercised?Or the week when Ididn’t do both properly?Or the week when Idid both of them properly? Whatever the case may be. All of thathelps you towards improvement. Or our social media plan.Or our social mediacontent strategy.Every week, every single thingon every single platformis recorded by us. Instagram and performance on it.YouTubeand performance on it. On Twitter.On LinkedIn.And the performancebreakdown is done.The number of followers added is just one metric. But what was the engagement?How many likes were there?What was thesubscribe-to-view ratio?How much CTR was there i.e. the Click Through Rate?What was the averagevideo duration?Large number of data points.Why?Because when you keep score, you’ll recognisethat how is the progressdepending on the first 2 disciplines. So, discipline number 3.Keep Score.And then, the most important.Discipline number 4.Build accountability. Accountability means that if God forbid,the first 3 thingsare not going wellthen what willhappen in your life?Because it is easy to say,“It’s chill, bro.”“Don’t need to do anything.” “I didn’t do the 1st thing.Wildly important. I didn’t do the 2nd thing.Meaning I put effortin all directions.Didn’t know wherethe most impact was.Third, I didn’t recordwhat I was doing. It doesn’t matter. No one will ask.No one will scold.Nothing will happen.”Then,of course, it will fail.What you have to build in,for the 4DX framework is discipline number 4: Accountability.This accountability cancome in multiple forms. It could be accountability through a partner.Accountability partner is a proven technique where you assign a friend,a family memberor someone else accountable tokeep track on you.So, they will ask you, “How is it working?”“What is going on?”For example,I have 4 friends.We are on the samefitness routineand we track the same sheet. So, at the end of the week,we give feedbackto each other.This looks good. This doesn’t look good.You are doing this right.You are not doing this right. And that suddenly builds an accountability.Because you knowthat someone else is monitoring this,testing this and he is going to commenton that as well.Or yougo for public building.Often, it happensin the startup world wherewhatever you are building as a product, as a service in your startup, you announce it publicly.And what happensbecause of that? The public keeps you accountable.You don’t knowthem personally but they will keepgiving you feedback;that you said thisthe other day,this doesn’t feel right to me. Or this thing you saidis really good.Do it more. So, that suddenly keeps you accountablebecause you are nowanswerableto the entire world.Or make your goals public.“My goal isto reach this point by this time.”Or “I will do thisand I will build ahabit towards that.”Whatever is yourdefinition of goal. That will bring inthat accountability.Or finally,external pressure.External pressure meansyou tell yourself that,“The best form ofaccountability for meis a type of fear.”Not negative fear but positive fear.Meaning I know thatif I don’t do this thingthen something badmight happen to me.And you bringthat external pressure.Could be through a boss.Could be through our parents. Could be through a friend.Could be through a sibling. But you essentially saythat if this thingdoesn’t happen then something not so good, that I don’t want to happen to memight happen to me. And you have to ensure that your fearkeeps leading you,motivating you.Last resolvebut it does workfor some people.So, this 4DX framework;Discipline number 1.Focus on thosethings first of all which are wildly important. Discipline number 2.Focus on the effortwhich gives youthe maximum return.Discipline number 3.Everything thatyou are doing, keep a score of itso that you can measure how you are progressing. And discipline number 4.Maintain accountabilitybecause that ensuresyou are consistentwith whatever you are doing.This 4DX frameworkin Deep Work, book by Cal Newport,which is the 4th wayto bring in deep workinto your life. And number 5.This will happen through discipline number 3of the 4DX framework.Is it too complicated?I’ll try again.The score you were recording. Along with that,you will also recordwhat is your shallow work? What is shallow work?Shallow workis work that doesn’t leadto any meaningful outcome but consumes time.We also call it busyness.Busyness isspread across the world. The biggest virus out there.For example,and I’d this with thehighest level of respectbutyou may getthe example that I am using.In out definition, a government office has what impression?And if I saya government office,maybe the firstimpression you’ll have islots of bureaucracy.People are working but no work is being done.You are beingsent to differenttables and cabinsand employees. For many years,this was the normin our country.It has improved a lot now and hopefully,it will keep improving.But what doesthis represent?The meaning of this impressionis the best definitionof shallow work.That peopleare doinga lot of work.And there are many people.It's not that thereare a few people.But no work is getting done.So, what work are they doing?That’s the same thingyou have to ask yourself.That how am I so busy?Because no workis getting done.I am not achieving anything.There are nooutcomes as well.So, when you keep score,you actually realisehow much of shallow work do you do on a daily basis?What are the things thatyou spend your time onthat make you look busybut you don’t move forward?And you have to cut down on those.Every single thingthat steals yourtime from youbut doesn’t take you ahead is shallow workand has to be eliminated from your life. And until you do this,you won’t be able toget into deep work.So, these 5 thingswhich will ensurethat any task you pick,you do it in thebest possible way. And most importantly,you create anapproach in your lifewhere you make deep worka habit in life,where every single thing is about your focus,about your intensity,about your intention.And every single thingthat tries to pullyou out of it or distract you or demotivate you,you will never be a slave of that.I was like, “What was the word?” Never be a slave of it.I hope this was helpful.You can get Deep Work,Deep Work by Cal Newport,the book.You can get it from thepinned commentand description given belowand I hope this video helped.Ankur Warikoo.Signing off.