From Jan 2022 to December 2022,my business earned27 crore rupees. This is how it was split. Affiliate income,meaning the links which peopleclick and buy something,and I get a revenueshare from it,it was 54 lakh rupees.The royalties Iearned through my bookwere 1.04 crore rupees.Through corporate talks, I earned 2.03 crore rupees.Through corporate talks, we earned 2.03 crore rupees.Brand collaborations on YouTube,on Instagram,on Twitter,on LinkedIn and anywhere else, it was 10.58 crores. And finally, courses, which we run in bulk,it was 12.97 crores.The entire sum was27 crore rupees.Last year, this numberwas 11.9 crores.A jump of almost 2.5 times.Through this video,Through this video,I will make you awareof those 7 mindsetswhich are necessary forevery single person,irrespective of how much moneythey want to earn in life,and was certainly responsiblefor getting us to the 27 crores.We weren’t born withthese 27 crores.We started from zero, and slowly and steady,within 3.5 years,we reached this milestone.But for this,a mindset was necessary. Let's see what it is.But before we start the video, it is important to knowthat when you havemultiple streams of income,you also have a lot of expenses,and tracking all theexpenses is very difficult.This is the reason why people say, “Leave it. Let's not do it.” It's wrong.As long as you don'tmanage your money,you will not have anycontrol over your money,and you will neverbe able to grow it.That's why, INDmoney.This video issponsored by INDmoney, where I am an investor and also a proud customer.Through INDmoney,all my investments,all my spends,all my portfolios,I can track them in detail,and not just mine but for my wife and my parents, through a family plan,I can also create anentire family portfolio.Through this, I do notneed to look anywhere else.What is going onin mutual funds?What is going on in stocks?What is going onin the US market?In one single app,every single expense,investment and growth is visible, which is why I would recommendINDmoney fortracking your expenses,your investment,and your wealth creation.There are other apps as wellbut my suggestion would be INDmoney because I am giving a biased view where as a customer and an investor,I am recommending it to you.Pinned comments and descriptionhave the link through which youcan download the INDMoney app.Mindset number 1:The growth mindset. The growth mindset tells us that your capabilitiesare not limited.The IQ or intelligenceyou are born with,the capabilitiesyou are born with,or whatever you have right now, they are limitless,not limited,and that is a veryimportant determinantof how you reach successin any shape and form.I remember when we startedthis entire journeyof creating content,of creating courses,of getting into corporate talks, we started with nothing.In 2020, when I startedfocusing strongly on content,I had 7,000 subscribers on YouTube. Right now,we have 3 million subscribers.I had nearly 11,000 followerson Instagram.I had been creatingcontent for 5 yearsand that was allthat I had gotten.Today, we have2.3 million subscribers.On LinkedIn,we have 2 million subscribers. On Twitter,we have 5,60,000+ subscribers.All of this happened in the last 3-3.5 years because we didn't think that,“A lot of people arealready creating content.So many veteransare already there.What can we do?What can we achieve?”No.Instead, we have to think,“We can learn somethingnew every day.We can create a new versionof ourselves every day,and that will take us forward.”This belief,this growth mindsetis the necessary inputtowards any success, including financial.Number 2:Effective time management.A lot of people say,“Ankur, you do so many things. Do you have more than 24 hours?You wrote a book. In fact, 2 books. You have your own courses.You are creatingcontent everywhere.You are going forcorporate talks as well.You conduct AMAs.You conduct Instagram lives too. You play tennis.You stay fit. You eat well.You travel with family as well.You might be doing many morethings which youdon't tell us about.How does this happen?” And I tell everyone,“Irrespective of how muchmoney anyone has or not,there is one thing which is same.”“24 hours”No one gets more than 24 hours.So, what you do with that time,that determines where you can go.It does not mean my 24 hoursand your 24 hours are the same.No. It is wrong. If a person has become rich, If a person has become rich, has got to a point wherehe knows a lot of things,their 24 hours areable to do a lot moreas against your 24 hoursif you are just starting, and you are inexperienced.And the way to buildtime managementis not that doing more thingswill bring more results. No.The way to think about time is,where does every singlehour of your life go? Are you wasting it?Or are you properly utilising it?Are you spending iton your learning?Or do you spend it on wastingof time and entertainment?And that doesn't mean thatyou do not waste time.No. It means that everythinghas a limit and a discipline.If you want to waste time onInstagram, YouTube and Netflix,there is a discipline for that too,which is calledWasting-time schedule. In my day, there are3 half-hour slotswhere I waste my time,but only in thosehalf-hour slots.I know at the beginningof those slots that I can do anything. I spend time on Instagram. I watch reels. I like it a lot. I watch videos on YouTube.I watch Netflix as well,and those half-hour slots,3 times a day is my time-wasting schedule. And accordingly,I also have a learning schedule,where I read books, where I am doing some courses,or I am trying to learnsomething from someone. All of that is towards effectivetime management.I will tell you a trick.In one day, don'ttry to do everything. How do I organise this?There are a lot of thingswhich we do as a business.How do we manage them?I think of my time capsuleas a week, not a day.A lot of people make this mistakethat they try to fiteverything in one day.Wrong.Try to fit everything in one week. So, what do I do?On Monday, I completemy entire shoot.On Tuesday, the first half is devoted to anything.Let's say I devoteit towards courses. Tuesday’s second halfis devoted towardssomething else. In the Wednesday’s first half,I write my newsletter. In Wednesday’s second half, I work on my Instagram AMAsand I focus on mydigital marketing, which is for the courses.In Thursday's first half,I review all the platforms.Thursday’s second half is free for now.I'll see what it will be.In Friday’s first half, I write my Twitter thread.Friday’s second half,I keep it free.On Saturday and Sunday, no work.But that is my way of doing it.If you are student,don't try to studyevery subject every day.One subject on Monday,one subject on Tuesday, one subject on Thursday,one subject on Wednesday,whatever the case may be.If you are a working professional,try to split yourwork in an entire weekso that for an elongatedperiod of time,you will be ableto focus properly, you won’t be distracted,you wouldn't have tochange contexts frequently,and you will know how tomanage your time well.Number 3: Seeking help.A lot of people don't do this,and I am always surprised to seehow people don't ask for help.My friend,you do not know everything.You will not be ableto know everything. Kill your egoand ask people for help.In the beginning,I had no idea howto build courses.I had no idea how tomarket those courses.I had no ideahow brand collaborations were done.How did I learn these things? Not buy myselfbut from people. I asked people. I DMed people on Twitter. I DMed people on Instagram and asked them, “You have amazing courses.How do you make them?”Vaibhav Sisinty,I don't know if youknow him or not,created amazingcourses on LinkedIn.Now, he runs theGrowthSchool startup.I really liked hisdigital marketing. So, I asked him,“How do you do digital marketing?” He gave me a reference.The agency that he referenced,I have been working with themsince the last 3.5 years.For creating my courses,I had to create paymentpages on Razorpay.So, how to receive payments?I did not know that.So, I DMed the CEO of Razorpay,“How do I use Razorpay?”He connected me with his team.So, I was talking with his team.There was a time where I wasasking him a question every day.I had to use the payrollsoftware of Razorpaybecause a team was formed,but I did not knowhow payroll was used.I did not know howstipend were paid.I did not know howTDS was deducted,because I am not a finance expert.I do not know these things.So, I sought help.Asking for help is the same as standing on someone's shoulder to reach greater heights, and if the other person  is willingly able to help you,you have to seek help.Due to this,you are not harming them,you are not crushing them,and due to this,you are certainly not becoming inferior.Ask for help.It is important, my friend.Number 4: Continuous learning.At the age of 40, in 2020,I started this entirelynew avatar of mine. A content creator, an educator,and a new startup once again. I had to learn everything again.Yes, of course, there were thingswhich I got from myexperience of runningstartups for thelast 10-12 years,through the experience of it,but there were a lot of things of which I had no idea.In fact, I had to change myentire way of running a startup.This is a bootstrapped business.This is a bootstrapped business.We have not raised funding, and we probably won't raise it.So, it had to make moneyfrom day one. Very differentfrom my nearbuy experience,where we spent money for 4 years before we became profitable.Number 2: The entire team is remote.There is no office.So, how would I manage that team?I had never manageda remote team. In fact,my entire perspectivesince the last 10 years wasthat as long as youdon't come to office,the work will not be done.So, a remote team,which was spreadthroughout the country, is very young,some of them were students, some have full-time jobs along with this internship,how would I manage them? I learnt it.I got to know itfrom people who have done it, from courses,from books.How to create abusiness of courses?I had no idea.I had done digitalmarketing for years,but that was alsoa long time ago.So, understanding it again, and working with an agency,giving them the mandate and trusting them,all those things again.In my company,no ESOPs are given, no shares are allottedbecause there will be noone to buy those shares. There is no investor. So, there will be no buyer.So, how do you incentivise them?That's how the concept ofprofit sharing emerged.Every quarter, whatever profitsare generated by this company,they will be distributedamong the team. In 2022, by the way,75 lakh rupees were distributed among the teamas profit sharing.This has made the intern’s incomego to almost 10 lakh rupees.So, they earned 10,000 upees per month as stipend,which sums up to 1,20,000 rupees.Then they are given some perks,which are nearly worth 1.5 lakhs.So, this comes toaround 2.5-3 lakhs,and on top of all that,they earned 6-6.5 lakhsthrough profit sharing,and that made their incomecome to almost 9.8 lakhs per year. This is for an intern who is not working full-time.They work for 20-30 hoursevery weekand they stand to earn this much. All of thishad to come through continuous learning. At the age of 40,if I could reinventmyself completely, challenging every notionthat I have hadin the last 10-20 years of working,why can you not do it?Of course, you can do it,and you will have to doit, my friend, becausethe world is changing,you are changing,and you have to make sureyou are ahead of the curve,and the only we to do that is to become a student for life.Number 5: Taking calculated risks.I will tell you about 3 risks. Half the population of India call it ricks. “Do not take ricks.Taking ricks, not good.”Risk number 1:In order to create mybusiness of courses,I spent 3 monthsdoing online webinars.For these webinars, I did notknow how much I should charge.So, I adopted apay-what-you-want modelwhere I told people that whatever you want to pay, pay it.It must be more than one rupee.So, you can pay one rupee or anyamount higher than one rupee,and this will bebefore the webinar has happened.So, you would not know ifthe webinar is good or not.A lot of peoplepaid just one rupee,which is perfectly fine.I was expecting it.But a lot of people paidway more than one rupee.In fact, the averagecame to about 197 rupees.It means 200 rupees per person,which is not bad at all,and then, through those 3 months,I realised that there is potentialin this business of courses.That is when I started to takebigger risks.Risk number 1:Nearly 7 lakh rupees,which was a big amountfor me at that point of time,I invested itto shootprofessional-looking courses.So, my time management course,my startup course,all these initial courses,they were short professionallyin a studioover a period of one week,and for that,the total upfrontexpense was 7 lakh rupees.I did not know what wouldbecome of these 7 lakh rupees, but I am so glad I madethat investment.Risk number 2:Risk number 2 was digital marketing.Digital marketingis a science which I understand thoroughly.So, I knew how I couldtake risk slowly,but it can also become a really big suck,because you could spend orwaste money really quicklywithout recognising where it went. That is why we startedreally low.Today,we spend 2-2.5 lakh rupees a day,meaning 60-70 lakh rupees a monthare spent every monthon digital marketing. We started with 5,000 rupees a day,meaning 1-1.5 lakhs a month. And for every single rupee,we had just one purpose,that we should earn morethan one rupee on it, and we had to find out for what audience,for what ad type, for which course, for what time, for what geography and so on,this gives us a returnof more than one rupee,and as long as it was doing that,we were slowly andsteadily increasing it.This was risk number 2 which worked out really wellbut it was a calculated risk.Risk number 3Risk number 3 was that through content,I would not earn moneydirectly from it.What does it mean?If you noticed,we do not run ourads on YouTube. So, we don't earn from any ad revenue, which cangive us anywhere between1-2 crore rupees more every year.1-2 crore rupees.So, it's not a trivial amountbut we haven't done it. Why didn't we do it?Because in my mind,Why didn't we do it?Because in my mind,I have a feelingWhy didn't we do it?Because in my mind,I have a feeling thatafter destroying your experience, I cannot earn money. If you are watching my video,and you are trying tolearn something through it,then an ad somewhatdilutes that experience.Now, I cannot earn moneythrough that experience because at that point,you would have been wishingthat the ad wasn't there.And I don't know whetherit's right or wrong,  but that's one approach. Then we decided that anywhere, at any point of time,we will not directlycharge money for content.We would of coursecharge for courses because we work hard for it. We curate them.We structure them.We create an entire infrastructure.But the content Icreate on YouTube, on Instagram, on LinkedIn,on Twitter, or anywhere else,we would neverdirectly monetize it.If we do it indirectly,then brand collaborations,like INDmoney is thesponsor of this video,through them, or we would conduct event talks, corporate talks, event presents.So, it would be through them,and the hope was that this entire content engine,this will generate trust.If people watch avideo of Ankur Warikoo,and if they see that he hasbeen creating content for years,they'll also see that the videoshe has been creating for years,they are, to some extent, good and helpful.They would begin totrust the brand, and then,if they watch an ad ofcourses of Ankur Warikoo,they will be likelier to buy thatand make a purchase.This was the thirdand the biggest risk,and that worked out. This enginewhere we look at contentnot as a sales engine but as a trust engine,and we look at courses asa digital marketing engine,and both of them working together would create a big funnel,is something that was also calculated and thankfully, worked out.These 3 risks with the mindset of taking calculated risks.Number 6: Seeking feedback. You will make mistakes. You will bow down. You do not know everything.So, you would haveto ask people thatwhat are you doingright and wrong.And the good thing about content creation in general isthat you do not have to wait.You do not even have to ask. People automatically tell you.So, wherever I made mistakes,people pointed it out, told me and taught me.Wherever I did something good,people applauded me,praised me,appreciated me,and that happened.But I needed solid feedback.So, every day, whatever emails I receivetelling me why my contentis being repetitive.“Your content lacks this.Your content lacks that.Your courses lack this.Your courses are notgood in this manner,in that manner,or this is whereyour course is good.You said something reallygood in this section.”All of that is constantly absorbed.That is why I read all my emails.That is why Iregularly check my DMs. That is why I personallyreply to everyone in the comments,wherever and however muchI am able to.None of my team comments on my behalf.I am the one who always does it.I am the one who repliesto all the emails.I am the one who ischecking all the DMs,and I love thatbecause that feedbackmakes us solid.It makes us better.Number 7:Maybe the most important of all. Consistency. I still remember, in 2020,when covid happened,there were webinars goingon all across the world.Everywhere you look,you would see webinars.People started creating contentas if there was no end to it. And I remember, at that point, tweeting,“It doesn't matter who iscreating content today.It matters that whenall this is over, who is creating content then.”And that is the key to content creation.That is the key to building a business. That is the key to making money. It is not that through a lucky event,you became rich. Through a lucky event, you became a crorepati.It happens rarely in life,and the ones with whom it happens, the faster it happens,the sooner it ends.In life, in order to become rich, in order to earn money,in order to gainfinancial success, and for that matters,any other success in life,consistency is needed.Consistency,and consistency takes a long time to build.You would need toput in this time,and you have to show upevery day.A lot of people wantto do content creation,but in the beginning,they see that they posted a video, they tweeted something, they posted a reel but nothing is happening. 5 views on the video.7 likes on the video.What difference would it make?Let's not do it. My friend,everyone started from zero.Everyone started from zero, but the ones who winare the ones who are in it  for the long term.Same for, say investing.Everyone starts from zero.Rakesh Jhunjhunwala also started from 5,000 rupees.Then how did it become35,000 crore rupees? Because he kept at itconsistently.Warren Buffet,consistently.Anybody else that you think of, consistently.You also need to do it. Invest regularly.Please do not take shortcuts.Please do not try tobecome rich overnight. I say this in all my videosthat whether you investin the stock market,or if you want to investin fixed deposits, or in crypto,or in real estate,always have a long-term viewwhile investing.That's the only, not the only, the better wayof making money.Not the only way.There are lot ofother ways to do it,but the better way of making it because when that money comes, the slower it came,the slower it will go away.It will not go away quickly. It will stay with youbecause you would haveadopted a similar mindsetof how to make that money  work for you.Earning 27 crores is a very clickbaity, very sexy headline.Reaching that pointis the key.I do not care how much we willearn in 2023, in 2024, in 2025 or beyond that because I know thatthrough these 7 mindsets,we have started our journey,and nowwe are not going to stop, just like youwould also not stop.Ankur Warikoo, signing off.