Number 1.Whatever you earn,spend less than it.Before you decideto skip this video.“These are obvious things.”“I am not watching itfor obvious things.”No.Let’s try to understand.A lot of people will say,“Of course.Whatever we earn,how can we spendmore than it?My friend, Ankur,what is going onin your mind?” It is possible.If you are in a marketwhere credit is easy.If you can get credit easily through a credit card,through a loan,through a “Buy now, Pay Later” scheme,through a buy todayand after 3 months, 6 months, 9 months, pay in installmentsor a lot of friendsmight lend you money.It is rare but if it happens then yes,credit becomes easy.And that’s when what we don’t have today,What we don’t have today, in terms of money,we assume we have money and start buying it.And we outspend our income.Every book that I haveread about money,somewhere in them, indirectly or directly,this point isdefinitely discussed. The people who earn money, the people who become rich, the people who are rich, they know thatwhat they are earning?What is their status?Which thing shouldhave what value?And if they can’t afford it,then they saveand investand reach a point where they can afford it.For them, taking credit is never a function of if I can get the thing today that I can’t afford?It is always about It is always abouthow can they save tax?It is always about that;In this video,all the books thatI have read on money,after summarizing them,the regular common things that are frequently repeated, I will share with all of you.Not just this,my top 3 books on money,I want to gift them to you.How?4 steps. Step number 1.Subscribe because this is open for followers only. If you are notsubscribed to the channel, you will not be eligible.Number 2. In the comment section,you must writethat in this video, how many times“Paisa”“Paise”or the word “Money”has been used by me?“Paisa”, “Paise” or “Money”You need to write thatin the comment section.Number 3.Your favouritebook on money, you need to write it which you want, of course. Could be Rich Dad, Poor Dad.Psychology of Money.The Richest Man in Babylon. Any book by Warren Buffett,by Charlie Munger.Whatever you wish.Any book on moneythat you want to buy or want to read,name that and then number 5.And then number 4.Wait patiently.After 2 weeks, we will select 15 people and those 15 people;who had subscribed,given the right answer for“Paisa”, “Paise” or “Money”word count in this video.Third.Their favourite book on money that they want to read, they named it.We will select15 lucky winners,announce them and they will then getthis book absolutelyfree of costhome-delivered to their doorstep.Number 2.Create a budget.This is singularlysomething that almost every book on moneyhas said. Until you have a budget,you can never knowhow much to spendon what thing and why?For example,a simple budget approach is50-30-20 rulewhich says that your entire incomeper monthor per yearor whatever. If you are a freelancer then whenever you earn.50% would go towards necessary thingswhich is your needs.Your rent, your EMIs,your food expenses,your survival expenses,your electricityand water bills. Needs.Without which you can’t live.30% goestowards your desires,your wants.You want a phone.You want a vacation.You want clothes.You want to go out for dinner. You want to go clubbing.Whatever the case may be,if you cannot afford it then you will say,“Go back to point number 1.”And if you can do it then within this budget only.And then, 20%. Minimum 20%,you will invest for your future. This will be invested in long-term assetswhere you will getregular returnsso that your bigexpenses in your life;So that the bigexpenses in your life;could be home loanor a vehicleor your marriageor your kids' education or your retirement.All of that isplanned for and you start as early as possible.Not just this,even for every event.I still rememberwhen I got married.This is back in 2007.I made a budgetfor everything.Budget for clothes.Budget for <i>Pandit Ji</i>.Budget for <i>Mandap</i> decoration.And I kid you not.I kid you not!The actual expenses and the budget, they had a difference of just 5,000 rupees.I did my entire marriagein about 5 lakhs or so. In 2006-2007,5 lakhs were a lot.And those 5 lakhs,with a 5,000 rupees margin, was my actual expense. If this budget wasn’t therethen this wouldn’thave been possible.So, number 2.Create and operate on a budget.Number 3.Power of compounding.Let’s me ask you this. Out of these 2 options, what will you choose? Either I am,instantly,ready to give you5 crore rupees.I am ready to give5 crore rupees. Or I will, for 1 month;on the first day, 1 rupee.On the second day, 2 rupees.Then its double, 4 rupees.Then its double, 8 rupees. I will give you for 1 month.What will youchoose out of these two? Now, if someone wants to reply instantly, they’ll say,“5 crore rupees.”“5 crore rupees!” Instead, you take 10 crores. 20 crores.30 crore rupees.Because you know,at the end of the month,what you started with 1 rupee, how much will it be? Nearly 55 crore rupees.55 crore rupees!How? Compounding. Meaningif you keep growing ata regular rate of returnthen your base thatis already formed,you are adding on top of it. One more on top.Then one more on top.And that means,slowly and steadily, the small number becomes so big that you can’t believe it.And how doesevery money bookmake this happen for us? It says,“Invest for long-term.”If you get 10-15%regular return every year;it won’t necessarilybe 10-15% every year.Could be 20%. Could be 10%.Could be -5%.Could be 25%.Could be 30%.Could be just 5%. But on an average,if you get 15% on an average. That meansthe time that you invested for,that will determine how rich you will be.And that is the power of compounding.It is the 8th wonderof the worldand you can never ignore it.That’s why I always say,“Whenever it’s about money,please start investing early.” Doesn’t matter if you start with 500 rupeesor 100 rupees or 1,000 rupeesor 5,000 rupees.What matters is how long are you ready to invest for?Number 4.Money is made from assets, not from liabilities.What does that mean, Ankur? It means thatwhatever earns money for you, it is your asset.Whatever costs you money or makes you spend it,it is a liability. Let’s use an example.Car is an asset or a liability? People will say,“It’s an asset.We bought it with our money. It is ours.We can even sell it later.”No.Car is a liability. Why? Because as soon as you buy it, you step out of the showroom, it price goes down by 20-30%.Every year, it price keeps getting lower.Its maintenanceis also a cost.When you ultimately sell it, you get a really low amountbasis what you haveactually paid for.It means every year, to own the car, you need to spend money. Let’s use a separate example. Suppose thatbeyond your house,you bought an office space.And then, you rented it.Is it an asset or a liability? You will say,“It’s a liability. It needs to be managed.We need to find tenants. We need to collect rent.” But no!It’s an asset.Because it giving youmoney without working. Your rent is coming inbut the value ofthe property is hopefully also appreciating.Meaning if tomorrow,you decide to sellthe office space then hopefully,you will get more money from what you had originally paid.And during that, you were also earning rent.So, you had a rental yieldand a capital appreciation of the property. You bought gold and gold is like, “Wow. Gold is an assetbecause its price keeps rising.”Yes,but if its price doesn’trise faster than,at the time of selling,what you will get after wastage then it doesn’t make sense.Instead of gold,if you buy jewellery then it may be a liabilitybecause you gavemaking charges. The gold might not even be pure.If it is lacquer coated, it might be hollow.The full value ofgold isn’t there.So, when you actuallygo to sell it, you will not getwhat you thought you will get.But if you buy a goldcoin or buy digital gold, that may be an assetbecause slowly, its value will keep increasing and it will actually make money for you.So, rich people always lookfor the difference betweenasset and liability.And they are always making sure that whenever theymake an investment  from their budget,they do it tocreate assets only, not for creating liabilities.Number 5. Stay invested for long. It goes back to the power of compounding.Power of compoundingis easy to understandbut its actualapplication is difficult. And there is a beautiful story that simplifiesAnd there is a beautiful storythat shows how this works.So, Bill Gates and Warren Buffet. They are really close friends. And one day, in an interview, Bill asks Warren,“Warren,your investment principlesare so simple.You say thatbuy a stock at good price and if the company is good, management is good, market share is good, industry is good then as much time as possible, hold the stock.And this is so simpleand it has madeyou so rich.Why hasn’t itmade others rich?” And Warren Buffet then replies,“Because Bill, nobody wantsto get rich slowly.”Nobody wants toget rich slowly.Everyone wants to get rich overnight.And that is what rich peopleunderstand very wellthat staying invested for a very long period is the surest way of creating wealth.Because compounding will happen.Slowly and steadily, it will happen.And that,every single bookaround making money,around how to grow rich,how to maintain your wealth focuses on.Whenever you invest, invest for long-term.Number 6.Create multiplesources of income. Stat: In 2012,if your income was 100 rupees then in 2022,it is around 130 rupees.This is how salaries have grown in our country.But in 2012,the thing that wouldcost 100 rupees, in 2022, it costs 170 rupees.It means your incomecouldn’t even beat inflation. Meaning the rate at which prices are rising is fasterthan the rate at whichyour income is rising.Now,it leaves you with 2 options.Increase your incomewith a higher rate.But it is not in our control. It has to be a function of the company we work in, the role we are in,the industry we are in,happenings in that industry, so on and so forth.Or option number 2,which is what a lot ofbooks on money say.Create multiplesources of income.Goes back to assets and liabilities.If you invest yourmoney smartly whereyour assets are growing,you will actually havecreated multiplesources of income.Example. When you buy stocks,it’s a source of income.Why?Because that stockis appreciating.And that means you,whenever you haveto sell that,will get money in as a source of income.Out of those stocks, if you buy dividend stocks;the ones who giveregular dividends,then you don’teven need to sell.Regular dividendswill keep comingfrom thoseownership of stocks and you will get that.Real estate. Real estate.You rented your propertyand you get a rental income.Capital appreciationis also there. You own someintellectual property.You wrote a book.You created music.You created graphic design. That is fetching you money. You have your own business. A side business.It could be something which maybe as a cloud kitchen, maybe as a writing service, maybe as an agency,maybe as adrop-shipment model.Anything.But when you earnmoney through that,youare making sure that in addition to your day job,you are getting a regular income. For thosewho may be like, “Is this even legal or not?”Yes.The law in Indiaallows you to havemultiple sources of income.The only thing that it saysthat every company hasrules and regulations.So, you have to be within that. If you work in an IT company and you have another job or another freelancing project with an IT company, that’s wrong becauseyou maybe passing on informationwhich is intellectual property or confidential.But if you workin an IT company and through music, you have a side income,that is not a conflictand you are absolutelywell within the law to do that.Freelancing incomeis a legitimate way of adding income to your total incomewhen you file your income tax returns.So, what almost everymoney book saysis please createmultiple sources of income.And number 7.It is the most importantand every singlebook stresses on itand it is not relatedto money at all.It says that“Your behaviour towards money, it is set from your childhood.” In my childhood, for example, we didn’t have money.We am from asimple familyOur parents worked really hardand slowly puttogether some money.Mom was a primary teacherin a local school.Dad was in a pharma company in a sales and marketing job.For a lot of years,dad didn’t even have a job.So, my mom’s school salary supported our expensesand our savingswere also being used. But after all that,they sent my sister andme to a good school.They gave us agood upbringing.But we never hada lot of money.And I distinctly remember that I felt that theroot of our problems is money.That the day we have money, everything will be solved.But that’s not true. Becausewhen you don’t have money,only 2 things canhappen in your life.Either you will chasemoney your entire life and you will makemoney your purposeor you will hatemoney so much that you will go beyond it.And you will try that money should never influence your life.You will never bea slave of money.Now, I don’t knowout of these, how does one choose?But what I know for myself is I had decided in my childhoodthat I hated money so much,I was so against it;because of it, our family has problems.It causes fights and arguments. It causes tension.So, I will never bea slave of money. I will never chase money. And that has remained there.And thatis something that weall need to understand.That our relationshipwith money is not just objective.It is so easy forAnkur Warikoo tosay in a video thatinvest in mutual funds.Invest for 10-15 years.But your hearts stops whenyou see a negative return.Because you canremember that daywhen you didn’t have money,when your parentsdidn’t have money,when you didn’t havemoney for tuition fees,when you didn’t havemoney for school fees,didn’t have moneyfor school uniform.So, youdon’t think thatit was said in the videoto remain investedfor 10-15 years.No. You can only think aboutwhat happened withyou in real life. And conquering thisis the most fundamental thing of life.Money is a reallyimportant thing to make the world work,to live life.But chasing moneyis maybe not right.Having money is super important. I absolutely admit that.But chasing moneywill maybe take you away fromyour own life.But understanding thisis something that takes time. So, try to makea relationship with money. Try investing money.When it goes down,remind yourselfthat it will go up.Conduct an experimentwhere even if it goes down, you will not be scared. Instead, that fearwill teach you something. You will learn something.And slowly and steadily,your relationship with money that was since childhood,you will try to change that if you feel thatthat relationship with money is not a healthy relationship.And thatis the 7thand perhaps the mostimportant lessonthat every book written about moneytries to teach us. In this video, through these 7 lessons,I want to teach you somethingthat is found ina lot of books butyou can also get the books.Like I told you,a 4-step process.Step number 1.Subscribe because this offer; Offer!? This contest isopen only for subscribers. Number 2.You have to tell inthe comment sectionthat in this video,how many times“Paisa”, “Paise” or “Money”word I have used?Number 3.Your favouritebook on money, you have to name itwhich you want to reador you couldn’t read yet and I can gift you.And then number 4.Wait patiently.After 2 weeks, we will announce its results where 15 lucky winnerswho gave the right answers of the number of times I used “Paisa”, “Paise” or word “Money”in this video.And we will then give themthe book of their choice. I hope this was useful.Ankur Warikoo.Signing off.