Number 1Self-awareness.Ask yourselfthat why are you doing it?Do you  know whyyou do things? We think that we know.But in reality,we don’t know.And even if we know,the self-awareness isjust on the surface.“Why am I doing it?”“Because I like it.”Move forward, friend. “Why do I like it?”“Why do I like it?”You’ll get an answer.On top of it, another “Why?”You’ll get an answer.On top of it, another “Why?”You’ll get an answer.On top of it, another “Why?” 5 Whys.5 Whys.When you ask yourself5 times thatwhy do I do it? You’ll actually get to know why do you do it?And that self-awareness is super importantbecause as long as you don’thave that self-awareness,you will never be able to move forwardknowing trulywhy you’re doingwhat you’re doing.Number 2EmpathyWhat does empathy mean?Empathy often means that we can understand someone else’s perspective. But how to understandsomeone else’s perspective?Because our ownperspective takes over us.A great way to do that which I often use in my life is a super simple question?“What is it that they know that I don’t?”“What is it that they knowthat I don’t?”This question is especiallyneeded in the momentwhen you find yourself ina conflicting situation.Suppose you are sittingin front of a personwho is giving you an opinionthat you are unableto connect with.And you want to be empatheticbut you don’t know how to be? Becauseyou are unable toconnect with them.You are unable toagree with them.Then if you askthis question that, “This very morning,this person didn't wake upwith the objectivethat I’ll destroy AnkurWarikoo’s life today.”No.So, if they areacting this way,there must be a reason.They must have a point-of-viewdue to which theyare acting this wayand which is so differentfrom my point-of-view.What do they know that I don’t?What could havehappened with themthat didn’t happen with me? What is that thingwhich I don’t have?And that will then open youto possibilities.And due to this,you’ll see the other person from a different perspectivewhich will make you empathetic and will upyour emotional quotient and emotional intelligence.Number 3 Listen to people.Be a good listener.And a beautiful test of it iswhenever I amlistening to a person, doI want to give an answer?Or do I reallywant to understand? Do I listento reply? Or to understand?With absolute detail This is a subtle difference but it’s super important.Often,especially when weare in a conversation,we listen to a person.But as soon as we listen,we start planning ouranswer in our mind.And we are just waiting.In fact,a lot of times,we don’t even wait. We interrupt themand start our answer. “Yeah. The worse are people who say ‘I also think that.’ ‘It happens with me too.’‘I was saying the same thing.’Doesn’t matter.If you are aneffective listener,if you want to becomea high EQ person,then you’ll have tolisten to people.And when you listen to them, you will attempt tounderstand what they are saying.You will try tounderstand them.Your answer is not important. Your understandingis more important.Number 4Enhance your non-verbal communication. If Imake the video like this where there are no emotions. Nothing else.My hands are not visible.My face is not changing.There are no emotions.I am just talking.Whether I am happyor I am angryor I am upsetor I am sad,you’ll never know.Just like robots talk.Robots don’t have emotions.That’s why they talk this way. I am not a robot.I am a human.And if I am a human,then I’ll use my hands to show my emotions effectively. My facewill be used toshow my emotions.I’ll make my voicego louder, go softerso thatI can show my emotions.Your non-verbal communication should be focused on.The words you have,they are important.The words you have, they are important.But research has proven that in any communication,often just 20-25% are your words talking and the rest 70-75% is your body, your hands,your face,your voice, your legs.And that thenis just as important,if not more.If you focus onyour non-verbal communication,you will automatically focuson your emotional intelligence. Due to this,the non-verbalemotions of others, try to capture them.If they are saying somethingbut their face issaying something else,then it might bepossible they are lying.And that becomes important for you tobe emotionally aware, emotionally intelligent.Number 5Try to find outhow do you handleyour negative emotions? Whenever you are angry, jealous, anxious,sad.How do you react?And then ask yourselfanother question.“Are there healthierways of reacting?”Especiallyif you feel thatthe way you reactis not healthy for you.If you get angry then you start breaking stuffor you give peoplethe cold treatment or silent treatment.You stop talking to them.Or you start screaming at them.Or you start screamingat everyone else.None of which is healthy. But you ask yourself that,“I can’t stop getting angry.”which is true.We can’t stop our emotions.We are humans and we will feel emotions.But the emotionallyintelligent peopledon’t say that,“We can control our emotions.” They say,“We are aware of our emotions.” “We know whatwe are feeling and why we are feeling it and due to it,how can we react?”So, if you aregetting angry,you will recognize thatyou are getting angry. But you also know that this angercan be channelized in a healthy way as well.It could be journaling.It could be recording a video and blurting that out.Remember that scenein Jab We Met whereGeet gets on a call and starts blurting out. And then she suddenlyfeels light.She feels relieved.I am not recommending that.Not necessary to callpeople and abuse them.But often, if youwrite a letter and you burn that letteror you throw it away,that itself will be anoutburst of your angerthat will not harm anyother person including you.Number 6Whenever anythinghappens with you,how quick are you to react?Whatever happenswith us in life,that is not alwaysunder our control.What happens to usis not in our control. But the way we reactis completely under our control.And that becomes our choice.Do wereact instantly?Or do we take our time, we feel our emotions, after being aware of them, after letting them goand then we react? Here’s an example.You receive an emailfrom your boss, from your colleague.They are scolding you or accusing youor blaming you or point your mistakes. The moment you read that email,do you start draftinganother email? A reply to them.Because if yes,then most likely that email will not be useful.That replywill be your life’s worst,most pathetic replybecause that was writtenby you high on emotions. In that reply, youwon’t achieve anythingexcept justtelling your story, bursting out on them, defending yourselfand worse,creating an environmentwhere you cannot havea healthy conversation anymore.Instead,take your time.Whatever you feel afterreading that email, feel it. Absolutely feel it.You are a personand feeling thisis your birthright.Do thatbut do it within yourself,by yourself. Journal it. Think about it.Meditate it.And then, once you are calm,once you are out ofthose emotion that you were instantly feeling,react.When you do that,your reactionwill be better placed.They’ll be emotionallyintelligent and awareand you will makeprogress.Number 7Do I surround myself with positivityor not?Emotionally intelligent peoplealways have a positiveapproach to look at life. It doesn’t mean thateverything in their life is going well. No.It means whenever thingsare not going well, they are surroundedby such positivity that they move forward to fix that thing.They don’t believe anythingto be permanentand they know that ifany difficulty isin front of them, that difficulty can be changed by thembasis the environmentthat they haveand the thoughtsthat they have within.Positive people.Positive content. Positive thoughts.Positive feelings.They are important.And these are mostly choices.Yes, we can’tselect our familybut beyond our family,every single thingis our choice.Our friends are our choice. Whichever relativedo we maintain relationswith or we don’tis our choice.Whichever company we work atis our choice.Whichever books we read is our choice.Whichever people we followis our choice.Whichever news channels we watch or read or newspaper we see or read?Or do we consumenews or not? That is our choice.Whichever people we trust is our choice. Whichever Whatsapp groupswe are a part of or a member of is our choice. All of these are our choicesand that determinesour level ofpositivityin our life.Number 8Am I open to feedback?Do I take feedback properly?Or do I always feel attacked? I was telling this to my team recentlythat if any persongives you genuine feedbackabout something that youare not doing correctlyand you know thatit is not right,then as much as youcan thank that person, thank them.Becausewhen you fix that thing, change it,improve it,you will only get better.But it’s baffling to meto see how many peoplerun away from feedback.So many peoplerun away fromfeedback every day!They don’t want to listenwhere they are wrong.They don’t want to acceptthat they are wrong.They feel thatthey will fallin the eyes of othersif they listen from someonethat they are not right.Friend,that is just one personin whose eyes you might fallbut if youlisten to what they say, if you fix itthen you rise in theeyes of everyone else.What is a better trade?Please make this trade happen.Emotionally intelligent people always ask for feedback.They love that feedback because they know that if they work on it,they will only get betterand better and better. Along with this,how do you givefeedback to people?Do you just tell people that they wrong?Or do you show them where they are wrong?Because the second oneis more important.It’s easy to tell someone. It’s easy to point mistakes. Pointing fingers, very easy.But showing them where they are wrong.Teaching them how they can fix it.Giving feedbackthat can help peoplewin in life is the reflectionand the markof an emotionallyintelligent person.Number 9Finally,am I grateful? Emotionally intelligent peopleoften,in fact I would say almost always, are grateful.Grateful about wherethey are in lifebecause they knowthat just by themselves,they haven’t done much.The family they were born in,which was luck.The opportunities they got, most of it was luck.The people who loved them, how they were educated, how they got a home,the clothes they got,the food they got,all of that was luck.And due to that,so many opportunities havecome in their lives that crores of people do not get in their lifetimes. That makes them grateful.Every day,they are grateful for the fact that they have a life,a house,a family,friends, love, money. And that makes themmove forward.When they look at someone else,they either look for help or for inspiration.And that makes thememotionally independent and intelligent.These 9 signswill always be found in anemotionally intelligent personand if you want tobecome one of them,you also have to adoptevery single one of them.If you become an emotionallyintelligent person,then you will alwayswelcome the emotionsthat you feel as a human because it is humanto feel emotions.What is not is to react to those emotionsas ifyou have no control. You have control. Ankur Warikoo. Signing off.