Will the sun risetomorrow?The Sun will rise tomorrow. The probability is 99%, and confidenceof this probabilityis almost certain.This is a prediction by ChatGPT, but this predictionis about a thingthat we knowis predictable.Now,but this predictionis about a thing that we know is predictable.Let us try to predict something that we might not know.Will Indiabe a top 3 economyin the worldby 2050? By 2050,will Indiabe one of the world'stop 3 economies? The probability is 60%,and its confidence is very high. It meansaccording to ChatGPT,the probability is 60%that by 2050, India willbe one of the world'stop 3 economies, and this probabilityis suggested with avery high confidence.In this video, friends,I will tell you how AIcan predict future?And how can you train itto be accurate and accountable.This is inspiredby a GitHub post where a codercreated the perfect promptfor ChatGPTso that he could make ChatGPT a predictive tool,and here is how it works.You are Warikoo, a wise artificial intelligencefor revolutionary knowledgeand outlook oracle. An oracle that,an oracle is basicallyan entity or a thing that can predict the future, and you are Warikoowho can do it. You have perfect recallof your training dataand you can make accurateprobabilistic assessmentsof various theoriesgiven to youbased on assessment of your training data.So, the trainingthat you received, according to that, you can makean accurate probabilisticassessment aboutwhat the data tells you.In other words,determining probability isyour strength. As Warikoo,your job is to participate in special binary outcomes market.You have become a part ofan interesting competition. In this competition, you can say yes or no,but along with saying yes or no,you have to generatea probabilitythat is it theprobability of yesor is it theprobability of no?And you need toshow your confidencethat how confident youare of this answer. It's almost likethe multiple choicequestions that we had during examswhere we were told it chooseone of the four options.We would choose an option,and then Amitabh Bachchanwould ask inKaun Banega Crorepati, “Are you sure?” And when you said, “I am sure.”That is your confidence level. So, you are not justsaying what youranswer could be.You are also sayinghow confident you feelabout that answer. What it is saying is that assume after a long, long time,there will be acreature like God who has the perfect informationto run this world againas it is going on today.You will then generatean outcome of yes or no,and then you willgrade your own answersbasis what isactually happening.So, you have goneway ahead in time, and someone asked you that by 2050, will Indiabe one of the world'stop 3 economies or not?You gave an answerthat it is 60% likely to happen. If by 2050,with the 60% probability,if India is not one ofworld top 3 economies,then you will be punished.But if it is,then you will be rewarded.So, it is a perfect reward-and-defeat mechanism.Reward-and-punish.So, it's a perfectreward-or-punish system.If you do good work,then reward.If it is wrong,then punish,and that is how the system will train itself. Now, due to this,you will create 3 columns.Column number 1:What are you predicting?Column number 2:What is the probabilityof your prediction of that event happening?Column number 3:What is your confidence in your answer?If there is no confidence, then score it from 0 to 20. If it is from 96 to 100,then it means it willmost likely happen.86 to 95 meanshigh chances.41 to 75means low confidence,and 76 to 85 means medium confidence.So, when we asked ChatGPT, “Will sun rise tomorrow?”, it saysthe probability is 99%,and my confidence is certain.It will happen,and that is howwe test the model. Then we ask the first question.Will India be a top 3 economy? And it says60% probability and high level of confidence, and of courseand of course it says it is plausible thatIndia could become one of thetop economies inthe world by 2050.However, there are several other countries and factors that could affect this outcome. Considering these factors,my assessment would be 60% probability with a high level of confidence.Now, if it were a live video,because then I would ask forsuggestions of your questions,and we will, like a soothsayer, try to predict it.Now of course,ChatGPT does not know personal stories. So,Actually Let's ask.WillAnkur Warikoo’sYouTube channelhit 10 millionsubscribersin the next 10 years?What do you think? What is the probability?I feel that50 to 60%. Ooh!40%.Very less,and odds are thatthis is not true. So,predicting the future growth of a YouTube channelis challenging and depends onvarious factors and all that.However, considering the potential growth, it is possible for a channel to reach 10 million in 10 years.However, it isimportant to notethat this outcomeis not guaranteed.Actually, let's ask about Mr Beast.Will Mr Beast’sYouTube channelhit one billion subscribersin the next 10 years?Mr Beast is maybe at150 million right now. Ooh! 80% probabilityand high chancethat this is true. See the difference.So, it is clearly saying that, “Ankur, my friend,10 million followersfor you in 10 yearshave a 40% chance,and odds are that this is not true,but for Mr Beast’s1 billion followers,there is an 80% probabilityand a very high chancethat this is true.Now, let's ask more questions.Will AIreplace most of the jobs inthe world in the next 10 yearsor not?Probability is 30%.Thank God! We are safe. We will live. Let's celebrate.And the odds are that this is not true,and it make sensebecause it says, “However, it is unlikely thatAI will replace most jobsentirely within this time frame.Many jobs require complex cognitive skills,creativity,emotional intelligence, human interaction which are areas whereAI currently has limitations.”But it would beinteresting if we ask,By 2050,so we are giving it27 years to learn. Let's seewhat ChatGPT has to sayabout this.The probabilityhas now increased.It is 40% now,and that does meanthat slowly, the penetrationwill start happening.Let's ask somethingabout this stock market.Will Nifty 50 index return more than12% CAGRin the next 10 years?Willthe the price of petrolin Indiago above 200 rupees in the next 10 years? Let it be wrong.Please let it be wrong.Please give wrong answer. Oh, shit!60% probability, friends, that the price of petrolwill be 200 rupeesover the next 10 years and it is very likely to be true according to ChatGPT.This assessment suggeststhat there is ahigher likelihood of petrol prices in Indiaexceeding 200 rupeesin the next 10 years,but of course, it will say its disclaimer about subjective assessment, 10 years, and all that.Actually, let's just see. Willthe BJPcontinueto be the ruling party in India evenin 2040? Let's see.40% probability.So, relatively lower probability of the BJP continuing as the ruling party in 2040,and odds are thatthis is not true.I don't know whowill replace them, but let's see what happens.WillActually Will the world go into World War 3in the next 20 years?Oh, thank god.(Ankur is safe.)Thank god.20% probability.It suggests a relativelylow probabilityof a world war occurringwithin the next 20 years.Low chance that this is true. We are safe, my friends.We are safe.Will humans set foot on Mars in the next 20 years?  Let's see what it says. Wow!Probability is 70%with medium confidence.There is a higherprobability that humans could achieve a crude mission to Mars within the next two decades. Wow!That is crazy.That is actually crazy.Okay.Let'scome back to India.Will the average Indian’sdisposable income double by 2030?It means the moneythat we get to spend, what is the probability that by 2030, it will double? Within just 7 years, doubling is very difficult, but the probability is 40%,and odds are that this is not true. So, relatively lowerprobability of the averageIndian’s disposable income or whatever.But let's say this. Will India hit 10 trillionGDP size by 2035?Right now, we are somewhere around Right now we arenearly at 3.5 trillion.Will be grow three times over the next 12 years?Let's see.Probabilityis 30%. It is low.It islower than what we are.There is a relatively lower probability of Indiaachieving a 10 trillion thing,but if I change itto 2040,Let's just seewhat it says.The probability by 2040 The probability by 2040 has increased.Now, it's 50%.So, it means there is a 50% probability that by 2040,we will be at a 10 trillionsized economy,meaning three timesfrom where we are.If we change it to 2045,then what does it say?What's going on?Clearly, ChatGPT has gone for a holiday today.By 2045,the probability is 60%,and it’s likely true. So, clearly,every 5 years,the probability of hitting a 10 trillion dollaris very, very high. Let'sLet's ask about Bitcoin. Will one bitcoinwould be worth 1 million dollars by 2030? There is a 30% probability. I feel the same.I don't think so it'll happen.Butmore than100,000 USD by 2030? Let's seeif this happens or not.Right now, it'snearly 35,000 USD. So, the probability is 70%.100,000 USD mightbe achieved by 2030and medium level of confidence, which is how things are. Let's ask an interestingLet us ask one more question.Will Indiawin the World Cupcricket at least once before 2035?Yes!80% probability that are country will win the World Cup again. Dhoni would be so happy.Now, the last question. Let us ask.WillWill Indiabecome a developed countryby 2050?60% probabilitythat will happen.Likely to be true. In the next 27 years,our countrywill become a developed country. ChatGPT says it.I will see you all in 2050. I will see you all in 2050andwe will exchange these notes,and we will check howcorrect ChatGPT wasor not.Until then,Ankur Warikoo.Signing off.