On our scooter, my dad and I reached the gates of IIT Delhi. At the time,the results of IIT JEEwere not announced online.This is back in 1998. So,results were printedon a paperand pasted on walls,and then accordingto your roll number,you had to check whether youwere selected in JEE or not.And for this thing,my dad and Iwent to Lajpat Nagar, Delhi to the campus of IIT Delhi. Ihad 100% faiththat my name wouldappear in the merit list. There was a crowd.We pushed through the crowdto make our way to the frontand then accordingto the roll numbers, with my fingers,slowly,I started searchingfor my roll number.One row was finished. I didn't find it. Second row was finished.I didn't find it.Third row was finished.I didn't find it.Only two more rows were left. The fourth row was over.I didn't find it.The last row,butof the first page. There were three more pages.The last row of thefirst page was over. I didn't find it.So, going on like this, the second page was also over. I didn’t find it.The third page was also over. I didn't find it.And I don't know ifyou have ever feltthis before but sometimes you feel that you are having a really bad dream, and you know that if you shake your head, you will wake up.You will get outof that bad dream. That's how I felt.At the time, I felt likeI am having a really bad dreamand if I shake myhead fast enough, I will wake up.The nightmare would be overand I will be back in reality. But that was the reality.It was the real thing.I couldn't do it andover and over again.I told my dad thatmy roll number is not there. He didn't believe it.He thought thatI made a mistake. So, he tried himself.And that was my firstexperience, in 1998,May,when I got a shockwhich made me feel thatmy entire life is over.If you’ve evergiven the CA exam,the UPSC exam, the JEE exam, the NEET exam, the CUET examor any such examin which you believed or you wished that you would be selectedbut it did not happen.So, the setback at that time feels really, really bad.And in this video,I want to teach youor I want to show youhow can you recoverfrom that setbackso that that setbackdoes not go on to define your life. In the morning today,I got an emailfrom a girl whospent 6 yearsattempting the CA exam.In the sixth year,she was selected,and then she joined a big four firm which was her life's dream. “I would join a big four as a CA.”And then, the firstfour months itself,she was convincedthat this job, this industry, this profession, it is not for her.And that can be sodamaging, right.It’s because her email was,“I am 30 years old.I spent 6 years of my lifetrying to clear this exam. I even did it.I spent 6 years of my lifetrying to clear this exam.I even did it.One of the toughestexaminations in the world.And now, even afterclearing that exam, I am not happy.What I thought my life would be is not what it is.”So, here are the lessonsthat I have learntfrom my academic setbackswhich couldprepare you not justfor academic setbacksbut for any othersetbacks in life.Number 1:Whatever you arefeeling, my friend,do not ignore it.Do not try to control it.Do not try to eliminate it. What you are feelingare your emotions.We are humans.We are emotional humans and these emotionsare really importantto live our life. So, if you are sad, if you want to cry,if you don't wantto talk to anyone,if you want to runaway from everybody, if you don't want to eat,if you can't sleep,every single feeling, every single emotionthat you are feeling, please go through that. Don't deny yourself thatbecause this isan important phaseto recover fromthis process, this setback. Don't deny yourselfthe emotions thatyou are feeling.And this is especiallyimportant in our culture because in our culture, whenever anyone fails, we have one single response.“It's okay.”“Move on.”And we just try tomake people move on.We never stopto let the peoplefeel that failure.Feeling the failure is not that you declare yourself a failure. No.It means that that failure,that incident, that moment, when you feel it, you will go through everything that is required to emerge from this setback.That's number one.Number 2:It is the most difficult thingto tell yourself at that moment.That's why the more you can try to remind yourself of this,whether by watchingthis video repeatedly, by writing it on your walls, by writing it in your notebook,by recording itin your own voice,it is important thatyou remind yourself that this moment in your life will not determine your life.This moment will not determine your life.This moment is a small moment in a very long life, and it will never,even if it was a success,it will never evergo on to define your life.Even if you passedin that exam, even if you topped that exam, that one moment, that one step,would not define your life.Life is so big,so large,so long that every single step just keeps getting added.It individuallyis not bigger thanyour entire life.So, even if it is a success or a ailure, this moment will pass.This moment will pass! Even if you pass or not, this moment surely will pass. It will take time but during that time,It will take time but during that time, you will have to be patientand remind yourself that this momentshall pass.Number 3: To make yourself believe that this moment shall pass,you must know one thing.It is that what is thepurpose of an examination?What is its objective?And if I think about this objectively,an examinationonly determinesthat at that point,whatever questionsyou were asked,how well did youknow the answersto those questions or not?And then, you are compared to a whole host of peoplewho are giving the same exam in the same conditions more or less.So, were their questionsbetter than yours? Or were they less?Or were they the same? And on the basis of this, a rank is generated.If you really think about it,success in life is notmeasured in this way. In life, Life is not a zero-sum game. In life,someone's victory doesnot guarantee your loss. In life,for you to win,it is not necessary forsomeone else to lose. In life, every person has a space. Every person has opportunities. It's what’s called a positive-sum game.If you win, someone else can also win.The best example of thatis let's say thisYouTube channel.When I started thisYouTube channel in 2017,a lot of other peoplehad YouTube channels. When in 2020,I started creatingcontent on personal finance,career and productivity,a lot of people weremaking content onpersonal finance,career and productivity.So, why is itthat I have close to 3 million people?Because there isspace for everyone. Not just mebut you can follow someother creators as welland you draw thebest from them.And this is not justcontent creation. In any other sphere, it is applicable.For you to win, nobody has to loseand if somebody has won,that doesn't meanyou will lose. Examinations don't follow that approach. Examinations follow a very strict zero-sum game approachwhich means if you are number one,then no one elsecan be number one.If you are selected,someone else mustbe eliminated.This is notthe right way of measuring life. So, you have to recallthat this methodof examinations,the process, the approach,this is not how real life works. This is just a verypoor representationof what they wantyou to go through.But this does not define life.This does not incorporate the success parameters of life,and that will hopefully help you reconcile that this moment will pass.Number 4:And this is very important.I wish I didit but I did itin a different way.Document whateveryou are feeling.Document everything that you are feeling. Do you know why?Because after a few years,when you would havemoved on in life,when this exam will not beas important in lifeas it seems today,when you wouldhave moved way aheadof this exam in life, this exam happening or notwould just be an old memory,you will not remember what it felt to be in this moment.You won't remember it.That's whyit is important to remember.Why is it important to remember?Becausea similar momentwill come again.It's not like you've lostfor the first time in life.You will lose manytimes in life.You'll have a lot of setbacks,but whenever thatsetback happens,you must have an approachof how to deal with it.And do you know how youwill get that approach?From your previous setbacks.But you would haveforgotten about it.You will remember the setback but what you were feelingand the steps you tookto overcome that setback, you would have forgotten them.You would have forgotten those core emotions.So, it is importantthat you document. Whatever you are feeling, whether you are crying, whether you are sad, weather you are depressed,whether you are irritated,whether you are angry,whether you are disappointed, whether you are feeling lost, you’re feeling guilty,you’re feeling ashamed,you’re feeling like a loser, write every single thing down,and write every day.Slowly, with time, you will get better and at some point of time, when you are absolutely fine, you will reflectand you will be unableto make yourself believe that the same person,maybe a month ago, or 3 months ago, or 4 months agowas a completelydifferent person. I wouldn't even recognise him.I don't remember it nowwho the Ankur from 1998 was.The incident that I saidin the beginning of this video is just an old memoryand it will slowly fade away.I wish I had written it. I wish I documented it.I wish I vlogged it.I wish that whatevermy emotions were,I had captured them.Please do that because it will help you overcome the next time you face another setback.Now we cometo the most important part, and that important part isthat the setback has happened.How to move on?And that is a very important exercise.Whether that setbackis an academic setback,you couldn't pass your exam, or a professional setback, you couldn't pass the interview,or a personal setback,you wanted to winover a relationship,you wanted to get it, you wanted to build it but it didn't happen.Whatever the natureof that setback is, here is a 3-step processthat almost always works.Step number 1:Sit with yourselfand make a long list of all the reasonsthat you did not make it. List down all the reasons why you did not make it.Every single reason that you feel was the cause of your failure.List them down.It could be anything. The smallest thingor the biggest thing. For example, I rememberwhile giving the JEE exam, my centre wasa government schoolin Sadiq Nagar,and this used tohappen in summers.Nowadays, JEE takesplace in two parts. First is maybe the prelims,the objective paperand then, the mains.At that time,it was a single exam.It was a 3-hour exam,or maybe a 2-hour exam of Maths, Physics and Chemistry.I don't remember it correctly.Like I said, my memoryis still fading away. And I remember,in that school, therewas a power cut. In absolute heat, completely drenched in sweat, I gave that exam.Write that down as well. “It was too hotand I was a cool dude. So, I couldn't give the exam in that much heat.”Could also be that I didn'tprepare physics well enough.It could also be thata lot of questions werefrom organic chemistryand I wasn't good at it.Could also bethat my pen was out of ink. Could also bethat the peoplearound me were takingso many extra sheetsthat I was intimidated.It could also bethat I had fever.Whatever the reasons,whether they are excuses, or the reality, or anything else, list them down.List every single thing down. Step number 1.Step number 2:Now, sort this listin increasing order of impact. Starting from the lowest impact to the highest impact, rank them.And you will know thatranking in your head. You cannot lie to yourself.So, I know thathowever much hot I felt, or I was sweating,that was maybe theleast importantin my result,and my preparation was not good in whatever discipline,weather it was physicsor chemistry or maths,or in your examination,any other subject that you have, thatwas my biggest reason of impact. So, you rank themin an increasing order.Why increasing? Because it is really easyto recognise thesmaller things first.It gets really difficult to put the big things later.So, you won't start with that.You will start withthe small things first and you will make that list.Take a close look at that list. Stare at it for 5 minutes, 10 minutes because that list willshout out that the list is not completely right.There are some thingsthat you are adding or subtracting or changingthat are not ranked correctly.Ranking is very importantbecause this willbe a zero-sum game.And then, the thirdand the last part. The top 3 reasons you haveof the highest impact of this failure,work on them. Eliminate everything else.However importantyou thought they wereor whatever the probabilityis of it happening again,it doesn't matter.You will only focus on thetop 3 reasonswhy you feelyou did not make it.Work on those 3 things.If you cannot workon those 3 things,then you will face thesame setback again.And unfortunately,then you will get so usedto facing the setbackthat in the second year, in the third year, you will be numb. And I remember that's the mistake that I made.In 1998,when I did not clear JEE,I did not perform this exercise.I was like,“No. Somethingmust have happened.There must have been amistake in the marks.The evaluatorwould have been in a bad mood.They were having a bad day.” Basically, I just passed it on to somebody else.I will fight itagain next year. I will prepare for another year, and the next year,I'll definitely make it. I prepared for another year with full dedication. But today,honestly from the heart,  it is impossible for me to liethat my preparationwas enough.It was not.It absolutely was not.I was weak at physics.I was weak at organic chemistry. I was good at maths.I was good atinorganic chemistry. But due to this,I could not have cleared it.And Idid not face the truth.So, the next year,the same thing happened.But the next year, the emotions that Ishared with you at thebeginning of the video,I didn't feel them.It was almostlike when I went in 1999 to check my result,I knewthat I didn’t make it. Knew it from the start. The confidence I had in 1998, it was completely gone. And that then made me realise that I am used to the setback.I have just gotten used to it.And I should not have done this. It was after thatthat I begin to change my life. And slowly, with time,after recoveringfrom the setback,I got to appointwhere I am today, where I ammiles away from the world ofPhysics and IIT and my studiesbut I am still living a life that I am happy with,that I find joy in.I think I am successfulon my own terms and I am a living examplethat life is very long. It's very beautiful,and the more you lookat life with patience,you keep working on yourself, the more rewardingyour life will be towards you.That's the beauty of life.So, whatever the setback is,whether it's UPSC or NEET or JEE or CA or law or anything else,whatever the natureof the setback is, professional, personalor academic, the approach is same, the perspective is same.Only the outcomewill be different. But ultimately, it will also be the same.Whether you are happyin your lifeor not? Because if you are not happy,then what did you achieveafter clearing all these exams?And if you are happy,then why did you even care about not clearing those exams?On that note, Ankur Warikoo. Signing off.