Number 7: This studio.You know about this.It is not in my home.It is not actually in my home. I have cheated a little here. It is one level below my home. Just like I said in my previous video, this is an office guest house, and my studio as well. So, I shoot my videos here. It's just one room. As you can see, in this room, I have my equipment. Then, my daughter has made a lot of paintings. So, I have put them up on my almirah. We have made a nice happy background. I sit on this chair sometimes, but it often remains empty. My favourite book shelf. When I want to take a break, I pull out a book and start reading something and then, I leave it. The YouTube plaques are also there, and this is a lovely, lovely setup. The most important thing is light. Just like I said, in all these 7 places, somethings are common. Number 1: Light. Light is very important for me. In fact, it should be important for everyone.It is not actually in my home.I have cheated a little here.It is one level below my home.Just like I said in my previous video,this is an office guest house, and my studio as well.So, I shoot my videos here.It's just one room. As you can see, in this room, I have my equipment.Then, my daughter hasmade a lot of paintings.So, I have put themup on my almirah.We have made a nice happy background.I sit on this chair sometimes, butit often remains empty. My favourite book shelf.When I want to take a break, I pull out a book and start reading something and then, I leave it.The YouTube plaques are also there,and this is a lovely, lovely setup.The most important thing is light.Just like I said,in all these 7 places,some things are common.In all these 7 places,some things are common.Number 1: Light.Light is very important for me. In fact, it should be important for everyone.I often see that a lot of people work in the dark,work in no lightwhich could be fine for some tasks,but ultimately,the human body needs sunlightand light to gain anext level of energy,which personally I feel works for me,and you should also consider putting it into your productive spaces. Number 2: Space.Now, this space is a luxury. I fully accept that.This is my privilege whichI am telling you about.I have space. So, I cannot tell everyone.It's like,“If you don't have space,you will be unable to do anything.”No.I grew up in a householdwhere there was a lack of space.All four of us slept in the same room, ate our food in the same room,we studied in the same room, we sat down to talk in the same room.So, naturally,it is a very big privilege for me that whereI am living today, it has a lot of space.There is a separatecorner for everything.All four people have enoughspace for themselves, and this space allows me tohave my own spaceSo, this space allows meto be by myself,and at the same time, I know thatthe people who are the mostimportant for me in my life, they are close to me, they are not far away.Number 3:An interesting thing.In all the seven spaces,at some point, there is a clock.Now, I don't know why that is a case, but it is my naturethat I like to see time.It is important for me to know,“What is the time right now?At what time did I start this task? What is the time now? How much time has passed?”And that is the mental calculation that I am always doing, and the steps from a13-year-old habitwhere I have recorded every single hour of every single day of my life. From the age of 13till the age of 26,for 13 years,every single day of my life,every singlehour of it,I recorded it in my notebook,and then, in the future,on an excel sheet because let's play Excel.And that trained me. Now, I mentally knowwhere my time is going,why it is going, and how will that make my day go? And that helps me shape up my mind and ace my productivity.Number 4:Distraction and clutter-free. All the spacesare clutter-free. All the spaces are distraction free.A lot of people think,“It’s so cool thatmy things are scattered here,my things are started there.I have an unorganized setup. It gives a creative vibe.”Maybe that works for youbut for me, I need things organized. If you look at my table, papers are organized in a way,stationery is organized in a way, I have a calendar which I need,I have my charging cablesright in front of me, I have my speaker right here,this towel that I needsometimes is right here, the cello tape is also right here.Everything that I need, which needs to be in access,it's literally right there and well organized.The clock is also right here. And this then helps memake my mind also clutter-free. My mind is never distracted.I won't say never. It gets distracted very less.I don't have notificationsenabled on my phone.And all of theseadd up.So, you won't become productiveby just keeping your space right.Just disabling notificationswill not make you productive.Just disabling notificationswill not make you productive.Just using some techniqueswon’t make you productive.You have to bring all ofthese things together.So, the space,your devices, your mind,and your task,all need to come together to make it happen for you.And this small glimpse of my world maybetriggers something positive in youto set up your space for your productivity max.Ankur Warikoo,signing off.