5 books on productivity,5 courses, 5 apps and 5 concepts in this video.Book number 1:Deep Work by Cal Newport.An amazing book.I read it at the age of 22 or 23when a new concept ofdeep work had emergedwhich said, “Everyone knows how to work.Working deeply means distraction-free work.” You are working and you had no idea of time.You got so engaged in work that you finished that workand you didn’t realizehow much time you spent.That kind of flow,that kind of deep workrequires a systematic process,and in this book, Cal Newporttries to teach us that.My favourite quotefrom this book is, “Less mental cluttermeans more mental resourcesavailable for deep thinking.”Often, we are so engagedin doing our workthat we forgetto think about that work,which is equally, if not more important than that. And if you can get yourselfdeeply thinking aboutthe work you have to do,then maybe that work willbecome super easy for you because through your thinking,you made that work easy.Book number 2:Getting Things Done by David Allen. This is a book of tips and tricks. It is mostly for business people.So, if you are in a corporate job and you struggle with managing your time, your office work,your work life balance, this book is going to help you a lot.The special thingabout this book is it not only focuses on workbut also on relaxationof work life.So, through amazingtips and tricks,it tries to tell us thatin the larger picture,how can you balance yourwork and your relaxation. It has an amazing quote,“If you don’t pay appropriateattention to what has your attention,it will take moreof your attentionthan it deserves.”If you don’t focus on the thing which has your attention,then you will need to pay moreattention than you need to.Book Number 3: Essentialism byGreg McKeown.Maybe this is his last name.Essentialismwould be one of my highestrated books on productivity.Basically, this bookis trying to tell us that in life,we have to change thedefinition of productivity.Productivity doesn’t mean thatwe can do a lot of things.We can move mountains.We will make theskies meet the earth. No.It can also meanthe pursuit of less.What is necessary, if we can do it properly,then that would also be enough.And that’s why, essentialism. To do your work,what is essential, necessary, minimum, critical?And if you were tofollow that approach, you will find yourself a lot more productiveand a lot more engagingwith your work.My favourite quotefrom this book is,“Essentialism is not abouthow to get more things done.It is about how to getthe right things done.It doesn’t mean just doingless for the sake of less either.It is about making the wisest possible investment of your time and energy in order to operate at our highest point of contributionby doing onlywhat is essential.” Brilliant.Book number 4: Free to focus by Michael Hyatt.This book teaches a lot of things.How to eliminate or filteryour noise and distractions?How to protect your boundariesso that people do not forciblyinfluence yourwork and your time?How to adopt a simple,no-nonsense approach towards productivity through a3-step process which isdefined very clearly and veryeffectively in this book.Basically, the structure ofthis book tries to convey thatwhat are the necessarythings in your life,and if you focus onthose necessary things day after day,in your day-to-day life,you will actually findyourself a lot more productive.A quote from this book which I like,“True productivity is about doingmore of whatis in your desire zone and less of everything else.” What you actually want to do,doing it more is true productivity,and saying NO to everything else,and that is how I thinkof my day as well.My day starts with asolid morning routineof which a video willbe posted very soon, and that routinesets me up for the entire daybecause it is in my desire zone.Everything that is inthe morning routine,I want to do them,I want to do them for myself,and once I do that,I don't care how therest of the day goesbecause I have donesomething to center myselfand start my day on a productive note.Book number 5: How to Be a Productivity Ninjaby Graham Allcott.Book number 5:How to Be a Productivity Ninja by Graham AllcottGraham Allcott is considered theforemost productivityexpert in the UK,and this bookis a version of all thethings he has learntaround productivity.What I like about the book is this book is pretty ruthless. It does not tell you to be nice, to be polite, in a nice, meaningful manner,to guard your time.It says that if youwant to save time,and if you want toprotect your time,then you will have to beruthless as well.And the methods shown in this book are genuinely on a ninja level.If you have to,figuratively speaking, murder people to save your time, you will do thatbecause it is necessary in that moment.An amazing quote ofthis book that I liked,“The trouble is the modernwork paradigmgives us so little senseof completionor clear space that it feels like we are constantly strainingto see the lightat the end of a long, long tunnel.”It's as if our life does not stop.In student life, it feelslike we are just studying.In corporate life, it feelslike we are just working,and it feels like thatthis tunnel inside whichwe are sitting, we are walkinghoping to see the lightat the end of the tunnel, it will never end.And that is unfortunately the reality of today's world.How do you destroy it? Through this book.Course number 1:The Science of Everyday Thinking.The best thing about this course isthat you can finish thiscourse within 12 weeks. So, it's not too long,and the best thing isthat you have two options.You can access thiscourse for free.You will not get any certificate.No one will grade your assignments.But you can also pay moneyand get a certificate from the University of Queensland,and your assignmentswill also be graded. The choice is yours.The free version is also available.All the five courseswhich I will share today,all of them are freeso that you can benefit from this.This course will basicallygive you the psychology ofour everyday thinking.And what I likeabout this course is that you will learn how to think independently,which is an important foundationfor you to beproductive in your life.As long asabout the world, about your work,about yourself, properlyand independently,with a curious approach, until you are able to think, you will always struggleto make sense ofwhere your time goes, why do you chase a task so muchthat you feel youhave wasted your time, why are some things constantly distracting for you,so on and so forth.Course number 2: How to Create aProductivity System. It's a completely free course,and only 10 days, 5 minutes every day,that's it.You will receive thiscourse through email.It will take just 5 minutesto read every email.You will receive 10 emailsand this course will be over.This will basically give youall the lessons that you need to learn to set up a productivity system.A productivity system is a means, is a processfor you to understandyour time, your productivity,your flow, and make the most of it. This course is also free.Course number 3:Work Smarter, Not Harder: The Science of Increasing Productivity. This course is not free, but technically, the platform, Listenable,provides audio coursesand the first 7 daysare absolutely free.Just because this course is short, just 1 hour 20 minutes in length,I believe you can completethis course with in one weekand get it for free because the first 7 days are free as a trial.What it basically does is it gives you everythingthat you need to know to increase your productivity.Super amazing, and the good thing isit is an audio course.So, for those who don't like reading,who maybe don't like watching, while driving, or while sitting in your bedroom,or in an uber, or in a rickshaw,or while walking, or running, whatever it is, you can listen to this course,and that would become the startof your productivity journey. Course number 4 from Coursera:Learning How to Learn: Powerful Mental Toolsto Help You Master Tough Subjects. The reason why I havepicked this up as aproductivity course is because learning how to learn is an important trade to win in this world.If you don't know howto learn something, and you always struggle to learn a new concept,to learn a new tool,to learn a new software,to learn a new way of doing things,your time will always be suckedand you would feel a loss of productivity.So, this course isspecifically for that. This course is also for freeand you can join it on Coursera.It will teach you everythingin 4 modules of how do you go about learning something new,avoiding procrastination,memorizing it well,and relearning.And finally, course number 5:Sit Less, Get Active. This is also on Coursera.It's a wonderful coursethat I have takenwhich basically tells youhow your physical activityhas a direct impact on your productivity as well.This is not a fitness course.This is not an exercise course.This is not a ‘get lean’or ‘reduce your weight’ course.This is genuinelyabout understandingthat physical fitness and mental fitnessand productivity,what is their linkage? And once you understand that,it will open up awhole new world for youwhere productivity willbe under your control.App number 1: Notion.App number 1: Notion. Notion is a note making tool,a note taking tool.It could be on your mobile, it could be on your desktop,and the best thing thatI like about this isit helps you organizeyour thoughts. I made a video called ‘Building a second brain.’This is an amazing coursethat is run by a verydistinguished fellow, and what he has done isthe thought ofbuilding a second brain on something like Notion.You read so many things. You hear so many things.You see so many things. How do you assimilate allthat information and make iteasy to retrieve whenever we need it?That is what Notion can do for you.A software which I personally useto record all of my conversations,to record all of my thoughts,to record the best articles that I have read online,or anything else thatI want to rememberbut I don't want tostore it in my mind.So, I do not putany load on my mind to memorize anything.All the things on notion,and when I need it,it's available for me.Number 2: Forest. A beautiful app. It basically allows youto take 30 minutes for yourself.Often, we get soengaged in our work, or we waste so much time that we lose track of time.And at that point,we want someone to take awayour phone, laptop or computerand we get 30 minutes of peace where we won't be doing anything.We won't listen to music. We won’t talk to anyone.We would justsit with ourself,with our thoughts.So, what this app doesis that when you start this,you are given a tree,and it takes 30 minutesfor that tree to grow.If you move before that, you checked your phone or anything else, then that tree dies,and you basically have a wayof taking 30 minutes for yourself and starting all over again with a different level, a higher level of energy.Number 3: Rescue Time.An amazing app.Must, must have.Rescue Time time-tracksall your activities.So, if you are on a laptop, or on a PC or computer,then which websitesare you checking,which websites do you wantto put a restriction on.Same thing on the app as well.You want to limit Instagram. You want to limit Twitter. You want to limit YouTube. All of that is possible through Rescue Time,and it gets combined. So, when you’re logged in,all your devicesget tracked cumulatively so that it's not like,“My Instagram limit was 1 hour.It is finished.Now, I will switch to PC oranywhere else,or on another phone.”Everything is combinedas a network and you are accountable. For example, I used Rescue Time a long time agoand it helped me a lot.I don't do it now because almost all of my devices are Apple except my PC,but I don't waste my time on PC. On my phone, through screen time,all my apps where I feel thereis a potential of wasting time,are limited.For example, Instagram:One hour, every day. I cannot watch it more than that.Whether I waste it inreplying to comments,or in watching reels,or on anything else, I get one houron Instagram every day,and I have to doeverything in that time. So, I am always mindful, and I know this works for me.Rescue Time doesthe exact same thingacross website, across apps, across devices.Number 4: Pomodoro tracker.Pomodoro tracker is an app which allows you to use the Pomodoro technique to be productive.What is the Pomodoro technique? I have spoken about it a lot.A 30-minute slabwhere you work 25 minutes, then take a 5-minute break. Again, a 30-minute slabwhere you work 25 minutes and take a 5-minute break.Again, 25 minutes, 5 minutes.Again, 25 minutes, 5 minutes.4 pomodoros,1 pomodoro is a 30-minute slab, after 4 pomodoros,you will take a longbreak of 15-30 minutes. If you do 8 pomodoros a day,which is only 4 hours,you will feel the differencebecause our mind, it is scientifically proventhat it can’t workfor long durations. It gets tired.So, if we give it a slabof 25 and 5 minutes,then in those 5 minutes,it will recover, and in those 25 minutes,with full attention and focus,we will be able to work.And only four pomodoros and a break, and then, four againwill be enough for us to conquer most of the things  we have to do in a day.Number 5: Grammarly.Grammarly, I think is the mostimportant tool one should have because Grammarly allows you to take care of yourwritten communication. We send so many emails,we send so many messages,we communicate so much online that a tool that helps us take care of our comprehension, take care of our grammar, tells which thing is wrong, which is not, what can be improved, is of course a must have to become productive. You won't have to think, “How to write? What to write? Should I write this?” By combining AI and Grammarly, you can actually give it directions like, “Write this email. This would be the tone. I want to say this. This needs to be accomplished.” It will write it for you, and you are done. These five apps for your productivity.we communicate so much online that a tool that helps us take care of our comprehension,take care of our grammar, tells which thing is wrong,which is not,what can be improved,is of course a must have to become productive.You won't have to think, “How to write? What to write?Should I write this?”By combining AI and Grammarly,you can actually give it directions like, “Write this email.This would be the tone. I want to say this. This needs to be accomplished.” It will write it for you, and you are done.These five appsfor your productivity.And finally, concepts.Concept number 1: Time-blocking.Time-blocking is a powerful tool to be productive. Everything you want to do, you will have to block time for itmentally, and physicallyon your calendar as well.Here's an example.How many times in aday do you waste time?You often do it.You checked Instagramthinking you just haveto watch one reel,but then you watched10, 20, 30…100 reelsand you lost track of time, or you started watching YouTubebecause you wantedto learn a concept, and you drifted somewhere else,and now you don't knowwhat you are watching.All of thisAll of this is somethingthat is caused byunrestricted time being given for an activity. What if you block time,even for time waste? For example, 3 times a day, I waste time,and this time is blocked. 3 slots of half hour eachwhere I know that Ican waste my time.I can do whatever I want.I can watch YouTube. I can watch Instagram reels.I can watch Netflix. It could be anything.I just need 1.5 hours a day.I am very happy with that. And those 1.5 hoursare scheduled in my calendar.So, I would know whenI can waste my time. That is time blocking. If I have to do something important, I will block my time for 1 hour, 2 hours, 3 hours, 4 hours, and along with pomodoro technique,I will work for those2, 3 or 4 hours,and I will ensurethat my work is done properly.This is the concept of time blocking.Number 2: Pareto principal, or the 80/20 rule.It simply tells us thatIt simply tells us that 80%of everything in this world is defined by 20% of it,or in other words,in productivity context, 80% of your productivity will come from 20% of your work,20% of your time. You have to find out what it is.If you are super busy in your day,you accomplish so many things,and you will still not feel productivebecause meaningfully, the 80%of your work that you had to do, you did not do it.And that often happensthrough 20% of the task.But that task has to be done.It's the same logic that applies for everything.In your entire day,however many hours you work for,just 20% of that timewill account for 80% of your productivity, your movement.However many investments you make, 20% of your investmentswill account for80% of your returns.However much youworkout or exercise, 20% of your fitnessexercises will account for80% of your action or yourmovement in your body. This principle is almost everywhere in nature,and if you add this concept in your productivity toolkit, you will become sharper and smarter about your time.Where is that 20%? I have to spend my time on thatbecause that will drive 80% of the outcome.Number 3: The Eisenhower matrix. Very simple, very powerful matrix which I also share in my time management course. Mark every task as urgent or not, and important or not. For example, your friend calls you, “Ankur, I need money. Someone has caught me and I need 500 rupees. Can you come right now?” This is an urgent task. Now, is this important or not depending how important that friend is for you, after how long has he called, and how do you feel about him. Maybe it is important, maybe it is not, but we will know. Exercise. Is it urgent? No. If you don't hit the gym today, or don't eat right today, nothing will happen in your life. It will have long term effects. That's why it's important. If your boss tells you, “I want this presentation tomorrow.” It is urgent, and that presentation is important as well because you have to face a client, or you have to present it to them. So, it could be important as well. Or something which is neither urgent nor important. Watching Instagram, watching YouTube for fun, and that is neither urgent, it's not necessary for it for you to watch it right now, nor is it important that you must do it. Now, when you think of a 2X2 matrix, and you classify every task as urgent or important, you suddenly get an approach. If something is urgent and important, do it now. If something is urgent but not important, see if you can find somebody to do it for, or you find somebody to delegate it to. If something is not urgent but important, schedule it, make it part of your daily routine, make it part of something that you want to do regularly. If something is not urgent and not important, drop it. Now, this is a harsh method. In my time management course, I present a more familiar and practical guide to how you do that. This is not a course promotion. It's your choice if you want to buy it or not, but if you want to buy it, then the description and pinned comment have the link. But the Eisenhower matrix of urgent and important is a great tool to understand how to think about time and about every task.Very simple, very powerful matrixwhich I also share in mytime management course.Mark every taskas urgent or not,and important or not.For example, your friend calls you, “Ankur,I need money. Someone has caught me and I need 500 rupees.Can you come right now?”This is an urgent task. Now, is this important or not dependinghow important thatfriend is for you,after how long has he called,and how do you feel about him.Maybe it is important,maybe it is not,but we'll know.Exercise. Is it urgent?No.If you don't hit the gym today,or don't eat right today,nothing will happen in your life. It will have long term effects. That's why it's important.If your boss tells you,“I want this presentation tomorrow.”It is urgent,and that presentationis important as wellbecause you have to face a client, or you have to present it to them.So, it is be important as well.Or something which is neither urgent nor important.Watching Instagram, watching YouTube for fun,and that is neither urgent,it's not necessary for it foryou to watch it right now, nor is it importantthat you must do it.Now, when you think of a 2X2 matrix,and you classify every taskas urgent or important,you suddenly get an approach.If something is urgent and important,do it now.If something is urgentbut not important, see if you can find somebody to do it for,or you find somebodyto delegate it to. If somethingis not urgent but important, schedule it,make it part of your daily routine,make it part of something that you want to do regularly. If something is not urgent and not important, drop it. Now, this is a harsh method. In my time management course,I present a morefamiliar and practical guideto how you do that. This is not a course promotion.It's your choice if youwant to buy it or not,but if you want to buy it,then the description andpinned comment have the link. But the Eisenhower matrix of urgent and important is agreat tool to understandhow to think about timeand about every task.Number 4: Flow state.An incredible conceptaround productivity. Imagine a graph.On the x-axis,we have difficulty of the task. How difficult is this task?On the y-axis,we have the skill that you have to do that task.Are you capable ofdoing this task or not?If your capability is more than the difficulty,meaning the difficultyis not too muchbut you are exceptionallyskilled at it,you will get bored.So, think aboutas an adult, you are playing a kids’ game.You have a high capability. Let's say people ask you,“What is 2 + 2?”And you are like, “It is 4.” “What is 3 + 3?”“It is 6.”“Let's make it difficult.What is 4 + 11?”You will quickly get boredbecause you are capabilityis far greater than the difficulty of the task.That's what happens.Let’s say the difficulty isgreater than your capability.So, this task is so difficultthat you have noidea how to do it,you will get frustrated. And that happens so often, right? A new task,a new tool, a new concept,and you find it really hardto make it happen becauseit is very difficult,or you are coding and you don't understand itbecause your capability is notmatching with the difficulty. And it happens a lot.The state of flow is when your capability and the difficulty of the task is perfectly in balance,meaning with an increase inthe difficulty of the task,there is a rise in yourcapability as well.And if you achieve that,you are max productive.Anythingwhere your capability and the difficulty of your workare balanced,you will find yourselfin a state of flow.And a state of flow iswhen you have forgotten about time, you have forgotten about the world,you have forgotten everything,you are immersed in that activity.If only this happened alot more in our lives. It happens rarely but when it does,it just sweeps us of our feet. That is the conceptand the focus you need to get to.Number 5: Theory of constraints. This is my favourite conceptaround productivity and theprinciple with which I live life.and the principle withwhich I live life.Theory of constraints saysthat in order toaccomplish any task,identify all the constraintsthat are stopping you,and find out what isthe biggest constraint.The biggest one.What is the biggestobstacle in front of youto get the work donein front of you? And just solve for that.Every constraint,every other constraint is immaterial.That constraint isthe most important,and as long as you don'tsolve that constraint, you won't move forward,you won’t leave it.This is a principal withwhich I live my life as well.So, a lot of peopleemail me saying that,“Ankur, we waste a lot of time.How to stop it?” “I am so confused.I want to do this and that.I am so confused.Should I go abroad orshould I stay in India?”Whatever the case may be.My only question is,“What’s stopping you?What's stopping you fromdoing what you want to do?What's stopping you?” And it's not funnythat so many people answer, “Me myself.My mind.” Great.Why is your mind stopping you?What is in your mind? It could be fear of failure. It could be fear of judgement. It could be fear of taking risk.It could be the fear of how Iwill look in front of others. It could be anything else. Find that out.Solve for that.That is the onlything that matters. Imagine if you fix this thing,you will actually havea way of moving forward and you will be productive.These 5 conceptsThese 5 conceptswill up your productivity gamecompletely. Summary: Five books:1. Deep Work by Cal Newport.2. Getting Things Doneby David Allen.3. Essentialism by Greg McKeown.4. Free to Focus by Michael Hyatt. 5. How to Be a Productivity Ninja by Graham Allcott.Courses:1. The Science of Everyday Thinking, which is on edX for free.2. How to Create aProductivity System,which is on Highbrow for free.3. Productivity Hacks:Lessons from Top Leadersand Billionaires,on Listenable for free. 3. Work Smarter, Not Harder: The Science of Increasing Productivity, on Listenable for free.4. Learning How to Learn:Powerful Mental Tools to Help You Master Tough Subjects on Coursera for free.5. Sit Less, Get Active on Coursera for free. Apps and tools:1. Notion, which is availableon Play Store, App Store and the web.2. Forest, which is available on Play Store and App store.2. Forest, which is available on Play Store and App store. 3. Rescue Time, which is available on Play Store, App Store and the web. 4. Pomodoro tracker, which is available only on the web.5. Grammarly, which isavailable on all three platforms.And concepts: 1. Time blocking, where you block your time for a task.2. Pareto principle,the 80/20 rule,where 80% of the outcomeis driven by 20% of your work.3. The Eisenhower Matrix,3. The Eisenhower Matrix,which tells us how to classifya task as urgent or important.4. Flow state, which tells us that the difficulty of a taskand the skill that you have,how to balance them. And finally, theory of constraints, which tells usthat the most important,biggest constraint in your task, solving that is the most important.I hope this was useful.All the best for yourproductivity game.This is Ankur Warikoo, signing off.