Let’s start with theimportance of savings.Savings are important because as long as you don’t save,you won’t invest,and if you don’t invest,then whatever big investmentsyou want to make in the future,whether it is buying a house, continuing your studies,education of your kids,getting your kids married,your retirement planning,all of those will not be possible.But along with this,it is also important to knowthat savings don’t mean that you put your life on hold.In fact, the bestapproach towards saving iswhere money for your needs,your desires,and your savings,you can gather all of them.So, first, let’s understandwhat are the waysthrough which you can actually go about your saving goals.Number 1: Something whichI have often talked about, the 50-30-20 rule.50% of your monthly salary,and no more,should go toward your needswhich could be your EMI,you rent, food expense, electricity and water bills,transportation expense,all the things whichare needed to live life. 30% should go toward your desires. Just like I said,your life shouldn’t be put on hold. So, the phone you want to buy,buy it.You want to go on a vacation,go for it.You want to buy clothes, eat out, party, do all of them but within this 30% only.And 20% will then be invested.This will be for the future,for all the things thatyou have to invest onwhich would be, first to begin with,your insurance. Life insurance, health insurance.Secondly, emergency fundso that, God forbid, if your income stops, then you should have at least six,and ideally, 12 months of expenses.And then finally, your long-term investments which you will keep doing.Whether through mutual fund, SIPs, whether through anything else.I have made many videosabout them which you canexplore in the pinnedcomment and description later.The second approachis forced investing.So, a lot of people havethis misconception that income minus expenses equals savings.So, the money I am leftwith after expenses,we will save it.No,because if your expenses increase,or you spend a lot at some time,or you get carried away and spendso much that nothing is left, then your savings will take a hit.Not the right thing to do.What I would suggest is forced automated investing or saving.What I would suggest is forced automated saving.So, as soon as I receive my salary,I have a different bank account,and I will sweep 20%of my salary in that,and this is parked for investing.The 80% which is left,that is all I havefor the entire month.I will not use credit card, and even if I do,I will always pay theentire bill amount.This will ensure thatI am saving money, and the money which is left,I am living the whole month with thatfrom the perspective of both my needs and my desires.What happens because of this isthe budget of your needs almost stays fixed.Your rent is fixed.Your food, electricity and otherexpenses stay almost the same.So, you will then start becoming very clear that the money which is left,how many desires,and what kind ofdesires can be fulfilled in that. So, it makes you very disciplined about this approach.The third approach, which was used by our mummies.Mummies means our mothers,not the Egyptian mummies. It was their approachand it used to workat that point of time.If you find it reallydifficult to save, then it could work here as well.It's called the envelope approach. Envelope approach means whatever money you get,if you want to applythe 50-30-20 rule,then you will put 50%cash in one envelope, 30% in another envelope,and 20% in another envelope.Now, you must deal with yourexpenses with these 3 envelopes. Our moms did it beautifully, right?Whenever they had some money,or they earned some money themselvesfrom their jobs and their salaries, they used to split it carefully.They are the bestbudgeting species on Earth.They know exactly how much moneywill be needed for anything, when and why it will be needed.It was always writtensomewhere on the calendar,or on the last pageof some notebook.They used to hide money inkitchen utensils and containers,and somehow the money wouldalways be arranged when needed.But they were very, very clearhow much money to spendin which category.If you struggle withmaintaining this online, then an actual, offline, in person,real life experience of that budgeting might help you.Now, this was all aboutwhy saving is important,and some methods, but let's just cope with some practical tipson how you can 2xyour savings from today.Number 1: Meal planning.The moment Zomato andSwiggy entered our lives,meal planning was thrownout of the window.We usually flippantly keep buying things.We have no ideaabout how expensiveactual online ordering has become.And on top of that,we add tax, GST, delivery, tip,and it becomes even more expensive.And we think thata coupon code of20-30% will helpus save our money.No, my friend.The best way to savemoney is to cook at home.It will be healthy,it will be delicious,and it will be far, far economical.In fact, I would argue that in India,you can even hire a cook oropt for a tiffin service,that also will be far cheaper than ordering it from restaurantsin addition to thefact that their food is quite unhealthy.Usually, it is expensive,and it is not a goodhabit to form.Cooking is something you should knowas a basic life skill,and if you don't wantto cook yourself,then please hire someone,but cooking at home could be a great way to save money.Number 2:You will surely have many subscriptionsrunning through your debit cardor UPI in a recurring manner,and you have no idea about them. So, every month,sit down,and all the subscriptions thatyou have not used in the last month, cancel them.In fact, the subscriptions whichyou know you are going to use, buy their early plans. It will be cheaper,almost 20-30% cheaperbecause you are making yearly payments and not monthly payments, and you know for a factthat you will use them. So, please make the most of it.Number 3: Online shopping.Online shopping hasmany small components.Number 1: Sales.Just because a sale is going on,it doesn't mean youhave to buy something.Please buy only whenyou have a need. So, go back to that 30% budgeting.30% is your budget for your desires.You have to spend in that 30% only, and please do not believe,“Something worth ₹1000costs ₹500 in a sale today. So, I will save ₹500.”No.If a thousand-rupee thingis available for ₹500 and you have bought it, then you have spent ₹500.You have not saved ₹500. This is a trap to fall in.Number 2: In online shopping, it happens multiple timesthat the price keeps increasingbecause you keepsearching for something.So, pleaseuse private window orincognito mode for browsing, not on the app. Browse on the web.That is the best thing.Number 3: Delete all shopping apps. All of them. Delete Zara, delete Myntra, any other app if you use.If you use Amazon as well,delete it.Shop only on the website.It will be painful. It will get you to reflectthat you actually needthat thing or not,and it will alsomake you disciplined about money.Number 4: Public transport. I recognize that Ola/Uber are really convenient a lot of times, probably from a safety perspective,probably from a convenience perspective,but as much as you can,use public transport.Use buses.Use metro.Both of them areair-conditioned nowadays,and that will not just save you money but also ensure thatthe convenience is not getting harmed,and you are able to get to that point where your saving more than 2x of what you are spending.Number 5: Do it yourself personal care. By the way, I don't understand this. I know so many people,boys in India who go to the barber for a shave.How rich do you thinkyou are, my friend? You cannot even shave yourself.You are spending ₹50-₹100rupees for a shave,and I can understand that youare doing it occasionally. Sometimes, even I don't feel like it.So, I do it once every 3-6 months, but getting a shave every day,or 2-3 times aweek from a barberjust doesn't help.If you really want to be aggressive, haircuts. I remember in the U.S.,in order to save money,because haircuts over therewere really expensive whenI was a student there, it used to cost almost $12at that point of time.It will be even more right now.We bought a hair cuttingmachine from eBay for $6.By we, I mean, me and my room-mate, and we used to cut each other’s hair,and it used to be anembarrassment for 1-2 daysbecause sometimes the cutwasn't even or uniformbut it was absolutely okaysaving that almost$100-$150 over a year,and small efforts cancreate huge impacts.When I came back from the US,I kid you not, by the way,I used to get $1300 asstipend every month,which was by the way a lot of money back then.$1 was ₹50 back then.So, all most ₹65,000 as astudent is what I used to get,but my expenses werealso in the U.S.So, our rent wasalmost $450 a month split between two people. So, almost $250 a month.Internet cost was $50 a month. So, $25 each was spent there.I did not use a phonebut of course, thatwas a different time. It was way back in 2002-2004.So, cell phones were expensive.So, I chose not to have one. Food, grocery, all those expenses,$50 per person.So, $350 was our expense for needs. I killed my desires back then.For those 2 years,I lived my life almost as a beggar.I used to spend $20 a montheven in worst-case scenarios.$5. When I used to get my salary,there was a pizza brandcalled Papa Johns,and they sold really amazing largepineapple jalapeno pizzas.So, I used to buy it for $5,and I used to feel really happy, andevery Thursday,there was a pizza joint.By the way, I really love pizzas,especially pizzas in the U.S.There was a pizza joint. They had a slice pizza for $1. I used to buy it. So, this added up to $8,and every Friday,we went to play pool,and its rate was $2 per hour,and we used to play for 2 hours.So, almost 8 dollars were spent there, and this used to be myaccountable expense of desires. Nothing else.So, over those 2 years,I saved close to ₹4,00,000 just buy cutting down on everything.I did not invest that money anywhere. It was just with me because as a non-resident, I did not know where I could invest,so on, and of course, I was notas knowledgeable as I am today,but I saved ₹4,00,000in 2 years as a studentwhich I felt was such an accomplishment because when I came back,my parents bought a house.I contributed towards it.My father's business was in downfall. I contributed towards it.We bought a second-handcar for ourselves. I contributed towards it.And my expenses for thefirst month for going to ISB,before I could use the loan, I contributed towards it. And I felt so happy about it.More practical tips.Next, use coupon sites.It could be nearbuy.com.It could be magicpin.com, or EazyDiner.com.All of those will help you save money. There is no embarrassment in it. These are things that you should use, have to use,particularly if youhave the goal of saving in your mind.Next, a very few people do this,but people should do it.Buy generic brands.Don’t buy “branded” brands.So, if you go for groceryshopping specifically,if you go to Reliance Mart or DMart,you will find Reliance salt and Tata salt. Reliance salt will be cheaper.There will be Reliance brand sugarand some other high-quality,pure white sugar.Reliance brand sugar will be cheaper.Buy that product.If you go for spices,go for Reliance brand spices.MDH spices will be expensive.Buy Reliance brand spices.The quality will not differ muchbut because these are private labels,  these are called private labels, they are cheaper because they don’t have a marketing or advertising cost. They are in the store.They are self-advertisedand marketed in the store.They aren’t available anywhere else.So, they go like that.For the same reason,there is a brand onAmazon called Solimo.Solimo has many high-quality products which are cheaper than the main brand. So, if you want to buy a charger,buy a Solimo charger. You want to buy a case,buy a Solimo case. You want to buy a keyboard or a mobile phone stand,buy the Solimo product. They’ll be cheaper. So, buy generic products.Next, share accommodation.Share accommodationas much as you can.In fact, pool your resourcesas much as you can.So, a great way of starting this,and I am sorry I am saying this but it just makes sense intuitively,particularly in your early years,share Netflix password.They have banned it nowbut when Netflix passwordsharing was possible,please pool in your resources.If you have taken a course,please find a friend whowants to take the same courseand split it with them. If you have, and I am not kidding you. This is very, very important. If you buy shoes,buy caps, buy sunglasses,buy accessories,please start sharing them.Of course, they can'tbe private consumptions.You cannot share your underwear, but maybe you cannot share your t-shirts and jeans as well,and that's perfectly fine,but anything which you can share,and you are okay sharing it,pool in the resourcesand make it happen.Same way, your rent.You are living in a house.It is a one-bedroom unitand you know that two peoplecan live in a bedroom,but maybe somebody can alsostay in the living room, and they are okay with that,and you are okay with somebodystaying in the living room.So, the same rent will now be splitamong three people instead of two, and that will help you save money.Anything that you feel is not critical for youbut is optional,and can help you save money,consider it.Next, credit card.Create an FDand get a credit cardissued on the FD.FD backed credit cardsare easy to get.If you don't have a credit history, you have not started earning,or your salary is less,it might happen that youdo not get a credit card.But you can get it through an FD. 2 things will happen.FD will keep growing at its usual rate.Your money is rusting awaybut at least they are secure. You will also get a credit card.Credit card will make 3 things happen.Number 1: You get aninterest-free loan for 30-45 days. So, awesome.Why not?!You will always pay the entire amount,but you can get an interest-freeloan for 30-45 days.Number 2: Your credithistory will form. You will use things.Then, you will pay them back,and because you are paying effectively,your credit history is also building. Number 3: You will get points.So, why not? Whichever card you opt for,whether it is an Amazon card, or MakeMyTrip card,or any other brandwhich you regularly use, you get their card.You will get a cash back there.You will also get points.Through those points,you can also avail some other things. So, it will help you save a lot more money.Next, buy second hand items. In fact, rent those items.People think that rentingis not good, and I often saythat anything whichdepreciates in value, if you rent it,then economically,usually over a 2-3 year period, it is better for you than buying it. So, rent your furniture,rent your electrical appliances,or buy them second hand.If you are buying a scooter, or a scooty or bike,buy a second handed vehicle.If you are buying a phone, buy a second hand phone.Do these smart things so that you get the experience,and you are also able to save money.If you do all these thingsand save ₹1,000 a month,and you add that ₹1,000in your investment, then after 5 years, these investments of ₹1,000would have become ₹90,000,and that is the beauty of saving.The more you save and wisely invest it,the bigger corpus you will have.The bigger corpus you have,the more financiallyindependent you will feel.The more financiallyindependent you feel,the more risk you willbe able to take in life.The more risk you take,the more returns youwill have in life.This cycle is the most important truth of life. I hope this videohelped you consider a few things that you could do to save your money.Ankur Warikoo,signing off.