Now I knowa lot of people will say that, "1 crore 75 lakhs, after 30 years,seems a big amount, Ankur.But what will be its value? Because ofinflation!"For this,the third financial calculator.The Inflation Cost Calculator. For this,the third financial calculator.The Inflation Cost Calculator Or Value Calculator. Basically,a calculator that will tellthat the cost of something, for example, is 100 rupees today then after a few years, due to inflation,how much more it will cost?And that's becauseevery year, inflationraises the cost of things.That is the biggest thing that eats away your money, reduces its value.So, yes.You are rightthat after 30 years,when you’ll have 1 crore 75 lakh rupees,it’s value then will be less than that. So, let us see how? First of all,let’s understand simplyhow this calculator works. For example,you want tobuy somethingfor 5 lakhs today.It costs 5 lakhs today.Let’s say your education.And you want to know thatifthe degree today costs 5 lakh rupees and when I have kids then after 30 years, this same degreewhich costs 5 lakhs today, what will it cost?That’s the questionyou are asking.That’s a very valid question because you must know its answer. So, you will usethis inflation calculator.You’ll say,inflation is risingat around 6%.Inflation is risingat around 6%. 5 lakh rupees is the value today.And you say that after 30 years,what will be its value?And youwill get the answer here.5 lakh rupees is the cost today.It will keep rising at 6%. After 30 years, the same coursewill cost around 29 lakhs. It meansthat if you want to plan education for your kids.The 1 crore 75 lakhsyou will get after 30 years.Out of that, 30 lakh rupees, or 29 lakh rupees, will go for education of kids if this 5 lakh degree is chosen by your kids after 30 years.And that is how you use it.Now, let’s try to answer that the 1 crore 75 lakhs you had, what was its value in the market?And that will have to be through this calculator. Some sort of aback calculation.So, if I check 30 lakhs.And let’s see that.Yes.Perfect.So, 30 lakh rupees,if something coststhis much today then after 30 years, the cost of that thingwill be around 1 crore75 lakh rupees;which means the 1 crore 75 lakhsyou’ll get after 30 yearsthrough your regular SIP,its value will beequal to 30 lakh rupees today, which is still better thatthe 18 lakh rupees, within 30 years, you’ll spend every year.You are essentially getting18 lakhs of valueover 30 years. Today, its value will be 30 lakhs which is a great dealand that is howyou have to thinkabout your money and about inflation.Now let’s add a small twist.I’ll go to the SIPcalculator again and assume thatwe will spend 5,000rupees a month,meaning in an SIP.But instead from 12% return, we will expect 15% return. A little more.And I’ll tell youhow this little more will happen?And the samewill be done for 30 years?The 1 crore 75 lakh rupeeswhich you wouldget after 30 yearsif you earned 12%yearly rate of return.The 1 crore 75 lakh rupeeswhich you wouldget after 30 yearsif you earned 12%yearly rate of return.Now, it has become 3.5 crore rupees.Now, it has become 3.5 crore rupees.Almost doublewith only 3% increase in rate of return.This is wild!It meansnot onlythe period ofinvestment is important, it is also important how much regularrate of return you earn?Now, how will you get this 15%?You get this 15% ifyou are ready to takeslightly more risk.If Nifty 50,which are India’s top 50 companies, if you invest in themas a mutual fund Index fund then you’ll get around12-13% return.But if you have a mix; you invest in Nifty 50. Mid cap,meaningmedium sized companies, you invest in them too.Small cap companies,meaning smallsized companies,you invest in them too. Then this mix can easily give youa 15-18% return over a really long period,which in our case is30 years.And this 3.5 crore;crore.3.5 crores of value.To calculate that,we go back.And let’s say how much? I start with 60.I don’t know if that isthe number but let’s see.Yes.Almost.Meaning 60 lakh rupees.3.5 crore rupeeswill be 60 lakhs of today. Meaninganything that costs60 lakhs today, the same thing,tomorrow,meaning after 30 years,will cost 3.5 crore rupees.And that means the investments you made;same 18 lakh rupees. Its value,within 1 year,at today’s value will be 30 lakh rupees.That is how you use the inflation calculator.