Number 1: Photography. If you like photography,you take beautifulphotos on your phone,or your friends often say, “You take good photos.You will click ourphotos from now on.”Then that could be a side income opportunity.You can sell your photographs online.There are multiple platformswhere photographerssubmit their photographs,and they are bought bypeople who want them.You can provide your services.Maybe wedding, maybe parties, and so on.You could become aphotography content creatorwhere you shareyour photographs on Instagram, on YouTube,and create a community.All of these optionsare available for you. Step-by-step process for this. Number 1: Invest in a good camera. It could be a phone camera, it could be a DSLR, and get the photographs running. As many as you click,your skill will improve.Number 2: Make a portfolioof your best photographs.Make it online.It could be on Instagram or on Dribbleor anywhere else where youfeel your photographsare best represented.Number 3: Register onstock photo websitesas a photographer and a seller of these photographs.Number 4: Along with this,create your own website or your blog or your YouTube channelor Instagram channel,and start showcasing these photographs to the world.Number 5: Engage with your audience.Whether they come onsocial media platforms,whether they come as enquirieson stock photographs,wherever peoplegive you feedback,acknowledge it,make it better, and get back to them.You will start seeingthat money come through.On an average,how much can a photographeras a side income earn in India? Anywhere between₹10,000-₹50,000 a month.Number 2: Blogging or writing.You can start your own blog, or write onlineto become an accomplished writer.In order to monetize it,you can use ads,you can do sponsored posts,you can do affiliate marketing.The opportunities are endless.If you write well,if you write for businesses, you can also start selling your writing servicesfor eBooks or business contentor editing,so on.So, a step-by-step process for this.Number 1: Start a blog.It could be on medium.It could be your own blog.Whichever is comfortableand economical for you. Number 2: Start writing every day.Pick up a topic whichyou strongly believe in, you know a lot of things about it,and you believe there areenough and more peopleinterested in thatcontent or that topic.Number 3: Generatehigh quality content. You can use the services of ChatGPT to hone the writing skills butthe core DNAshould be your own.It shouldn't feel like anyonecould have written that pieceIt shouldn't feel likeanyone could have written thatpiece or it was written by ChatGPT.That essence of Ankur,it should be present in it.Promote your blog on social media channels, WhatsApp groups, wherever you can,and you will slowly startattracting an audiencewho will like you for thecontent you have created.Number 5: Turn on monetization.Create space for ads.So, through Google AdSense, youcan run ads by Google on your blog.You can start approaching websites and brands for affiliate marketing.You can insert their affiliate links, and through the clicks,whatever revenue is generated,you can earn a percentage of it.You could do sponsored posts for brands,for peoplewho you want to talk about,which can be seamlesslyintegrated in your content, and they are willing to pay for it.On an average, if you do this,then you can earn ₹15,000-₹1,00,000 rupees a month.Number 3: Cooking.If you like to cook and peoplejust don't seem to stoppraising your food, then that could be a great side income opportunity.You can start a cloud kitchen.You can start catering services. You can create content on cooking.The opportunities areamazing and endless.Food and India are best friends ever.So, first of all, chooseyour specialisation in food.It could be bakery.It could be North Indian food.It could be South Indian food. It could be snacks.It could be desserts.Whatever is it that you feel is your best cooking style,and people love you for that.Number 2: Start fromyour home kitchen.Don't invest in cloudkitchen at this point.Cook from your homewhile maintainingthe quality standard,and start talking aboutit in your colony.Start supplying slowly.It could be the batter for dosa. It could be birthday cakes.It could be even parathasfor people who cannotmake them on their own and would love to have it.Whatever is it that you make best. Start slowbut start right.When you get experience,a feedback loop will be created,and you will feel a lot more confident,and then, you willmake a big investment. It could be about teaching people how to cook through content.It could be creatingyour own cloud kitchen. It could be providing catering servicesoccasionally.If there is a birthday party,then you'll have a big group to serve,or if someone is having a house party, you can provide your services there, and start unlockingmonetization opportunities.As a side income,As a side income,through cooking,you can earn₹20,000-₹80,000 a month.Number 4: Tutoring. If you are good at studies,if you like teaching,then tutoring could be abrilliant side income opportunity.You can teach international kids. You can teach desi kids.You can take online tuitionsand teach the entire world.Whatever you feel comfortable with.At the start of my career,I earned good moneythrough tutoring.I have been tutoringsince 10th standard. During my 10th standard,I used to teach maths and science tothe students of 5th and 6th standard.Then, as my studies continued,the classes I taught also increased.In my college, I used toteach 9th and 10th standard science and maths, and that used to get me, at that time,₹125 per hour.I remember I used to make almost ₹800 a month,which was an insane amount at that point of time.I used to feel that I amthe king of the world. So, steps to do that. Number 1:Identify which subjectsyou are the best at.Which age group do youlike teaching the most?Number 2: Create a lesson plan. Create an approach so that you are disciplined in your approach.Number 3: Register yourselfon tutoring platforms.Circulate pamphlets about yourselfin your community.Mention yourself in WhatsApp groups,and get visible.Number 4:Start tutoring students.Most importantly,ask them for referrals.Students are stronglyconnected with each other.So, if you can get these referrals,you will have an engine whereyou will get an endlesssupply of students.Of course, location canbe a problem sometimes,but if you understandhow you can teach online, and the student in front of you is just as engaged over a zoom callas they would be in person,then you have unlocked, my friend,a massive opportunity.Number 5: If you want toearn passive income where youearn without spending your time,then record all these classes onlineand create a channel, something like Khan Academy, and look at how big it has become. As a side income,as a good tutor, you can earn₹10,000-₹50,000 a month.Number 5: Music.If you know singing, If you know singing,if you can play any instrument,then that could bea great way for you to make a side income.You can teach people music, in whatever shape and form. You can entertain people online. That could become an income stream.Number 3: You can make your own musicand unlock an incomeon iTunes or Spotify.Steps for it.Number 1: Make a portfolio. Make a demo.It could be covered songsmade by someone else earlier and you are just covering them.It could be originals ifyou are at that point, but make yourself,even if you want to teach others,a demo or a portfolio of your music. Number 2: Start talking about it.It could be on WhatsApp groups,through pamphlets.If you have an onlinesocial media profile, then through that.Number 3:Either start teaching peopleor start sharing contentin the form of music.You will slowly startbuilding a community. Ask students for referrals,ask your followers for comments and feedback, and you get a network activated.Number 4:Unlock monetization.You could do sponsored posts.I know of somebody who quit their CA careerto become a musicianand now, they create originals for people’s occasions.So, let’s say I want to create an original birthday song for Ruchi,then they will help me with it.So, they will listento our stories clearly,translate that into lyrics, create music for itand get it delivered. That’s such a fantastic andunique personalized service and this is just one example of the multiple opportunities you have as a musician.As a side income,a musician can earn₹15,000-₹70,000 rupees per month.Next, Fitness training.If you are a fitness enthusiast,your own body is fit,you understand the science behind it, you can unlock a side income, my friend. You can make people fit. For example, my coach, Sagar,who plans my fitness routine for me according to diet,according to exercise,according to feedback,and that just helps me a lot.You can create contentand improve people’s fitness journeys,and you can, of course,make a lot of moneythrough direct subscriptions.For example, I pay Sagara yearly subscription feefor becoming my fitness coach.You can do sponsored postswhere you could be workingwith fitness brands,with a lot of sports brandsto endorse their productsand their services,and naturally, through your own affiliate income, you can earn revenue if you endorse others through a linkand not necessarily a collaboration.Number 1:Get certified as a fitness trainer.It helps you with your credentials. Understanding that science of nutrition, of the body,of everything attached to it is important and also necessary.Number 2: Identify your niche.For example, my coach, Sagar, he has a niche of men above 40.That's such an incredible nichebecause there are enough peoplewho want to get fit in the 20s and 30s, but in their 40s,when people have a sortof mid-life crisis,a lot of people are like, “What will we do now? We are not fit or anything.” And he focuses just on them, which is such a wonderfularea and a wide space where, of course, he is killing it.Number 3: Start personalised training. Offer the services.Understand what people want to get to. Understand their body types.Understand their eating habits. Understand their motivation.And with that in mind,create a personalisedroutine and plan for them.Number 4: Referrals.Always, always important. The more you ask people for referrals,particularly when youhave done a good job,they will be happy togive you a referral,and the more likelierthey will be to convert.Number 5: For passive income,start a fitness blog.Promote your videos, your content.Get a lot of testimonialsthrough your clientsand make moneythrough a passive way.For a fitness trainer, you can earn ₹15,000-₹60,000 rupees a month,and that too as a side income.Next, graphic design.If you know how tocommunicate visually,then graphic design is amassive space for you.You can do social mediadesign for people.You can do brand design for people.You can provide services forpeople across multiple spectrums. You can teach people what graphic designing is all about,and you can directly sellyour own art or craft. Number 1: As it starts with almostevery art, create a portfolio.All that you have done, make a collection of them so that it represents what you truly stand for.Number 2: There are a lotof freelancing gig platformslike Fiverr, Upwork where a lotof graphic design work is posted.So, start applying for them,show your portfolio to them, and wherever you find work.Early on, don't optimise for money. Optimise for really high-quality workwhich challenges you so that your portfoliobecomes even more solid.When you have done the work, ask for referrals.Through the referrals, you will get great connects.Through referrals, you willget the same level of work,and of course, start unlocking more money and also gain in confidence.Number 4: For passive income, you can create your own art. It could be merchandise. It could be stickers.It could be notebooks. It could be stationery in general, or anything else, and start selling them on sites directly to consumers.Number 5:Document this entire journey online.Graphic designing and somethinglike an Instagram platform is hand-in-glove.They are made for each other.So, the more you can usea platform like Instagram,the more you can leverage it todocument your entire journey,to share your design, to collect feedback,the better your personalbrand will become, and it will help you in discovery by people who will ultimately pay you for your skills,for your services.As a graphic designer,even on a side income level, you can earn₹20,000-₹1,00,000 a month.Coding.If you know how to code, if you are a software engineer,then you can make websitesand apps for people.You can make your own products.You can provide service to people, or act as a consultantto a lot of businesses. Number 1: If you are interested in codingbut you don't know all the languages,then please get accustomed to them. Languages like JavaScript, Python or anything else which you believe you want to be specialising in,are interested in,and is also a hot languagefor what you want to do. Number 2: Create a portfolio.You will have to go onsomething like GitHub.Create your own portfolio.This portfolio will be about your codeand not so much about your designs,and so on,and showcase your best quality work.Number 3: Go tofreelancing gig websiteslike Fiverr, Upwork andmany other destinations, particularly for coders as well,where you can go andsearch for projects. Apply to them with your portfolio,and hopefully, you willget through some of them, and you will get good quality work.But more importantly,number 4: You will get referrals.Always at the end ofgood quality work, ask for referralsbecause at that point, the emotions are high.People really appreciate you.You have done somereally good quality work,and they will be happy to help you.Number 5: If you are good at codingbut you also want to teach, or you know how to teach,then I will strongly encourage youto alsodocument the coding journey.Make tutorial videos.Many of your hard projectswhich you can share publicly, document their journeys, and people will learn from that.You will also unlock apassive income stream, and you will also getricher and better at your skill.As a side income, a coder can earn₹30,000-₹1,50,000 per month in India.Next, video editing.Video editing can do wonders for you.You can edit reelsand shorts for people.You can edit long-form content.You can edit brand videos.You can create your own content, and it’s endless, my friend. Video editing is a skillfor the future.Of course, I know that due to AI,it feels like, “Willit be necessary or not? Machines are doing everything.”But this is where it becomeseven more interesting.If you are a video editor,or you want to be one, first thing you need to dois of course,get accustomed to all the tools that are out there. Take video editing courses. Start with the free ones.Then go to the paid ones,once you can afford them,but get that masteryat a foundation levelthat you need to have. Number 2: Start playing with AI tools.You have to know how to work with them, not against them.So, the more you can use AI,the morenumber 1:Your speed will increase.Number 2: Your quality will be better. Number 3: You can cheaply, if not in terms of money,then certainly in terms of time,do that thing,all of which will help you.Number 3: Go to gig platformsand find work projects,freelancing opportunities,internships, or anything else.Send out cold emailsand get started with some work that gets yourhands dirty in the process.Of course, after doing every job, ask for referrals.Number 5: If you like to teach, then start making tutorialson your journey so thatpeople can benefit from that,and you unlocka passive income stream.You can earn ₹20,000-₹1,00,000 as a side income video editorin India.Next, makeup artist.A lot of people like makeup, and they are actually good at it. And what do they often do?They do makeup for the friends on special occasions,they can do their own makeup very well,they teach otherpeople how to do it but making it a side income somehow becomes a big task for them. Hopefully, not anymore.As a makeup artist,you can provide services to people.You can create your ownInstagram channel whereyou can document your entire journey,and you can make a lot of moneyworking with brands and collaboration. And of course, affiliate income whereyou can endorse products,sell them,and earn a revenue share.Number 1: Start with a portfolio.So, the people whosemakeup you have done, do a before-and-afterthat becomes a good portfolio.Talk about your specialisation. Are they eyes?Is it foundation? Are they lips?Is it hair?Or anything else. Makeup could also extend into, actually not makeup, this can extend into a broader beauty and fashion thingwhere you can be a fashion advisor, or a dress advisor, or a costume advisor,or an accessory advisor,whatever the cases are.If you have that aesthetic sense,and you know what you are going after. First, local sharing.It could be WhatsApp groups.It could be in your colony.It could be your friends. It could be your colleagues.Start warming up slowly with thembecause you get to number 1: Experiment with them.Number 2:Make some nice, happy money.But number 3: Most important. Get referrals. If they like your work,then they will happilyrefer you to others,and you will then start buildingthat network that you want.I would strongly encourage you to create a channel on Instagram.This is a highlyInstagram-friendly content piece.This is a highlyInstagram-friendly zone.So, wherever fashionand beauty are involved,you will strike it rich if you are on Instagram.Document your whole journey there.Try to build a personal brand.Of course, according to thecomfort of your clients,share their testimonialsand start creating that buzzthrough your network.As a makeup artist,As a makeup artist,even in a side income capacity,you can earn₹15,000-₹70,000 a month.And finally, event planning.If you like to organise parties,I instantly rememberRuchika from my team. She is like the life of our team.Whenever we tell her,“Ruchika, we want to play a game. We want to plan this.We want to plan a Bollywood night.”Eveready, and does a brilliant job.In our friend circle,there are people who are incrediblewhen it comes to birthdayparties for kids.They design themesbased on Disneyland, Alibaba, Frozen, and whatnot,and they do such a great job, and I constantly keep telling them,not them, and I constantly keep thinking,“What an amazing side incomeopportunity it can be?!” So, if you love organising parties, love organising dinners,love organising experience for people,then you can become an event planner. That event could be small or big. It could be birthday dates, or weddings, or anything in between. First thing, start by either doing these events yourselfor volunteering for the events.So, if you feel that event planningis something that you will enjoy,become a volunteer,try to understand behindthe scenes operations.It feels really good tosee a well-organised party but behind the scenes, there isactive work going onthat you may not like once you get to experience it yourself.So, volunteer andexperience it yourself,or organise your own parties or events and experience it first-hand.Number 2: Try and think of a niche. It could be birthday parties.Even in birthday parties,it could be birthday parties for kids.Even in birthday parties for kids,it could be theme-basedbirthday partiesas against normal,or it could be pool partiesor destination parties, whatever the case may be. The more focused you are, the more specificity you will have,and the more money youwill get from clients because they are looking exactlyfor an expert to execute that idea.Number 3: Start offering itto friends and family.In your local environment, WhatsApp groups,wherever it is possible.Start slowly.Do it for people.Record that entire journey.Share it through Instagramclips, videos, stories, posts so that people get excited about it.They see it first-hand thathow beautiful it is,and through that, get comfortable,and of course, gain confidence. Number 4: Just like I said, ask for referrals.A lot of people willcome to the party, and you will get to display your skills there.Please be in the party.Be an active member of that eventso that people get to knowthat you organised it, you are the planner, and if they really like that event, they can reach out to you. Number 5: As always,if you are interested in passive income,then start creating content on it.There are so many small detailsthat go into organising an event that if you talk about them,if you talk about themin a detailed fashion,you will attract a very strong community of people who will love you for what it is, and you can unlock money through ads, through brand collaborations,through affiliate income,and a combination thereof.An event planner,even as a side income,can earn ₹20,000-₹1,00,000.There were many other options for which the details I did not explore.It could be crafting.If you are good at art and craft, then you can create your own craft and sell it on platforms.It could be gardening.You can create contentaround gardening. You can set up gardens for people,and that is something that you could do.Social media management.You can manage socialmedia for people. It could be personal brands.It could be celebrities.It could bemaybe corporate leaders.You can do digitalmarketing for people,running ads for themon a small scale, generating leads for them,creating visibility for them.If you have any other ideas, please write it in the comment sectionso that everyone can benefit from it.If you have a personal story,then that will be even betterbecause it will inspire all of us. I hope this was useful.Ankur Warikoo,signing off.