Ok. Let me start my recording, alrightCamera recording, mic recording and everythingAlright, first one is US stocksIf you want to buy or sell stocks in the US market,then this video is exactly for you.Friends, this video is here. So many of you asked mehow to buy US stocks, how to sell US stocks,how to invest in the US market? So, I thought it’s high time,I will have to make this video. In this video,I will tell you every single step that you should knowto invest in the US stock market. The best thing aboutthe market is that you can start investing witha very small amount because it has a veryinteresting thing called fractional shares.What are those? I will tell you.First of all, in this video I will invest from theapp that I myself use for investing in the US stocks.You can choose the app you want, but I use only this stockAgainAn important thing before I start, I will use that appthat I myself use and I will tell you the whole
An important thing before I start, I will use that appthat I myself use and I will tell you the wholesequence of events through that. You have the
that I myself use and I will tell you the wholesequence of events through that. You have thefreedom to choose your own app. It is not asponsored post, because I have been using thisapp for the last 1.5 years, this is the appthat I would recommend if you want to startyour US stock investing journey.So, I use Indmoney, there are many used casesof Indmoney, but the most important use,for which I started using Indmoney wasUS stock investing. Now I use it to track my moneyand investments too, but that is a separate videowhich I have already made.To open US stock investing account on Indmoney,it is important to know that how is US stock investingdone. So, all the apps that you will use forUS stock investing while you are in India,including Indmoney, they will not buy stocks foryou themselves. Just like on Zerodha there is aDmat account, through which you buy stocks,similarly you have to create an equivalentDmat account in US, and that is a Dmat accounton Indmoney called Drivewealth. So, basicallyyou create an account in Drivewealth throughIndmoney where all your stocks rest.This is a very important thing to note.This means that, Indmoney doesn’t haveyour stocks, in fact Indmoney doesn’t evenhave your money. You are just sending yourmoney to Drivewealth through Indmoney orany other app and then through Drivewealth
money to Drivewealth through Indmoney orany other app and then through Drivewealthyou will buy and sell your stocks.Now, what is Drivewealth? Where has it comefrom? What is there to know about it?Drivewealth is a really old investment firm,in fact I were to tell you exactly what is Drivewealth,because I don’t want to leave it at saying that it isan investment firm, it is a brokerage firm and it isOk, hold on, Drivewealth, yesNow what is this Drivewealth? Where has it comefrom? Is it important for you to know about it?Of course, it is important because your moneyis going to them, they will buy the stocks for you,so it’s important to know. What is Drivewealth?I am just going to read it specifically. Drivewealthis a partner of Indmoney. It is a member of the FINRA,I F no, F I N, I F, it’s not IFRA, it’s FINRA, F I N R Awhich is Financial Industry Regulatory Authority andSIPC which is the Securities Investor Protection Corporation.It is a licenced carrying and self-clearing brokerbased out of the United States, registered in all50 states offering digital brokerage solutions tobrokers, dealers, advisors and online partners worldwide.Important thing to note, God forbid if somethinghappens to Indmoney tomorrow and you havebought your stocks through that, your money isstill secure because you are protected by theUS law and Drivewealth. So, you have a protectionor insurance of up to $500,000 in Drivewealthwhich is about ₹3,50,00,000. So, if you haveinvested that much which is ₹3,50,00,000, andGod bless, God bless?! May God grace you withanother investment of ₹3,50,00,000, and thenyour money is protected until that amount.You need two things to open a stock brokingaccount on Indmoney. Your PAN card and itneeds to be KYC verified, that’s very important.So, the minute you put your PAN card inIndmoney app, you will go to US stocks, it will beclearly mentioned there, open your account using Drivewealth.In fact, sorry, let me just see if I can get to thatSo, the moment you go to US stocks in Indmoney,it is clearly mentioned there, ‘create free accountwith Drivewealth’. There will be a few early questions.It will ask for your PAN card, with that detail it willfetch your name, it will ask for you date of birth,your risk profile will be measured which is animportant criterion, that what kind of an investorare you. Do you take a lot of risks or not? So simplequestions for that. Then it will ask for your PAN cardand your address proof, these are the two importantdocuments that you will need and then you willhave to link a bank account with Indmoney.You will send your money from this bank accountto Drivewealth through Indmoney.I am repeating this once more.Basically, you will give your money fromyour bank account directly to Drivewealthand it will get reflected on the Indmoney app.That is how it works. You are not giving yourmoney to Indmoney, just sending your moneyto Drivewealth which is in the US. How to do that?Sorry, I am now going to go toOnce you open this account which will take amaximum of 15 minutes, after that the next stepis to transfer your money from your bank accountto Drivewealth. For that, first of all you willhave to add Drivewealth as a beneficiary.Remember those old days when we used todo bank transfers through net banking andwe had to add a beneficiary, exactly the sameway we will add a beneficiary. The only differenceis that this beneficiary is outside India, so youwill actually be making a payment from Indiato the US. There are 2 modes for this.Number one is the online mode, which is themost convenient one but in online, only4 banks are allowed right now, which isBut only 4 banks are allowed in online mode which isICICI, HDFC, IDFC and Kotak Bank.If you have a bank account in any of these4 bank accounts which you have linked withIndmoney, then without any physical intervention,without stepping out of your house, you candirectly send your money from your bank accountto Drivewealth. If it is any other bank account,then you have to physically deposit your moneyin to your bank account in a paper format andthen only they will be transferred to Drivewealth.So, my suggestion would be to link any of these4 bank accounts because then it will become smoother.How is the money transferred?
4 bank accounts because then it will become smoother.How is the money transferred?It is under something called the LRS in India,Liberalised Remittance Scheme, which means thatin one year any Indian resident, like you and I cansend $250,000, which is equal to around ₹1,90,00,000at today’s rate, outside of India. Important to note,that this is not only for stocks, it is for any kindof expense. Whether it is your education,your international travel, whether you havebought some international currency not throughcash but through your bank, or you want totrade in stocks or you want to do someprivate investing in start-ups and so on,the collective amount for all those is $250,000in a financial year, this is allowed. Governmentwill not ask you any questions for this,any clarification on this, and it automaticallyhappens through these 4 banks.So, what you have to do, is go to your bank account,I have linked my ICICI bank account, then youcan actually see on the screen, I have addedDrivewealth as a beneficiary to my bank account.The way that you will have to do that is that ifyou go to your Funds Transfer ICICI, there willbe something called Overseas Transfer.You will have to add a beneficiary there.All these details will be available to you whenyou open your account in Indmoney, they willsend it you in an email and it will be on theapp as well, all these details then need to beadded and the moment it is added,you are ready to transfer the amount.Ok, let me just stop this now, finish recording.When you transfer this amount, friends,it will reflect on your account in Drivewealthin 3-5 business days. It will be deducted instantlybut it will reflect in 3-5 business days.There will be a code that you will have to enterin the remarks section of the payment. When youmake any payment, there is a remarks section,when you enter the unique code given toyou by Indmoney in that section, they will knowthat the money that has come in Drivewealthbelongs to you and it will reflect in yourIndmoney account. It seems a bit scary,but it isn’t. it works seamlessly. I have tried itmultiple times and there never has been any failure.Very impressed, very happy with how it works,smooth, it happens automatically in3-5 business days, there is no need to speakwith anyone, no need for follow-up,everything just happens.Charges, and this is important. Since you aregiving the money directly to Drivewealth,there is no role of Indmoney, so the charges ofthe bank is independent of Indmoney.How much is that charge? For instance,ICICI charges ₹1000 per transfer. That meansthat if you transferring ₹5-6000, thenautomatically ₹1000 plus GST is deducted from it,then your return decreases that much.That’s why, it is important then wheneveryou transfer, do it in bulk. You may not want totransfer small amounts, because every time youwill have to ₹1000. Plus, there is an exchangecurrency loss. Since you are converting yourmoney from INR to USD, it’s not necessary thatit will convert at the same rate at which you canbuy a dollar. So, there is an efficiency loss,which the bank does for its own income.It could be anywhere from 1-2%. Net net is thatif you are transferring ₹1,00,000 at one time,then it kind of makes sense because there willbe a loss of 1-2%, but hopefully over a long periodof time, the returns that you will get from theUS stock market, that will more or less cover up for it.Next, let’s talk aboutNext, let’s talk about buying. Now your money isreflecting on the Indmoney app and you are nowready to buy. Important thing to know at this pointis that, just like Indian stock market open at9am and close at 3:30pm and you can buy andsell during that time only, same way theUS stock market also has a time which isbased in the US. Since they are behind us,so their working time is our evening,so right now for instance,Shouldn’t have said right nowSo, from 14th March 2021 tillSo, from 14th March 2021 till 7th November 2021,the US market will open at 7pm and willgo on till 1:30am. From 8th November 2021 to13th March 2022, it will open at 8pm and willgo on till 2:30am. This happens because thereis concept called Daylight Savings in US.Basically every 6 months, they move their timeby one hour ahead or behind, that’s why this difference.So, if you are looking at it between march to November,then from 7pm to 1:30am, and betweenNovember to March, then it is from 8pm to 2:30am.That is when you can trade. Of course,the good thing is that you can place anyorder at any time of the day and it will getexecuted whenever the market opens.To execute an order, which is buying and selling,Indmoney doesn’t charge anything.It is a completely free trading platform.To show how it works, let me just go,unfortunately for this video I had put in amoney request little late, that’s why it is notreflecting till now. So, right now in my accountthere are only 22 cents, but I can stillbuy something with those 22 cents.Why? Because in US there is a conceptcalled fractional shares. For example, Google,whose parent company’s name is now Alphabet,its stock is for around $2400, which meansone share for around ₹1,80,000. Now this isvery expensive, it’s not necessary that you wouldhave ₹1,80,000, maybe you have ₹18,000 andyou wanted to buy stocks of Google.Now, this wouldn’t be possible in Indiabecause we cannot buy fractional shares inIndia but fractional shares are allowed in the US.This means that you can even buy 1/10th shareof Google. That stock is for ₹1,80,000 but youhave only ₹18,000, so you can actually place thatorder and you will get 1/10th of that share for₹18,000, and the best part, if a dividend isannounced, let’s say a dividend of $100 isannounced per share, then how many sharesdo you have? 1/10th, so you will actually get$10 which is 1/10th of $100. At any point to sell,you can sell that 1/10th share and you will getyour 1/10th equivalent back. It is brilliant!It is great because you can start your investingor trading from as low as $0.1which is 10 cents and that’s great.Now I will show you how seamless it actually is.So let me just go to top tech stocks. Alphabet islisted there, it is worth $2291, so it’s basicallyfor $2300. Buy, and you can see in buy,my account balance is 22 cents, and I willactually write 22 cents and it will then tellme that I will buy 0.000096 shares of Google,so it is as fractional as it gets. And I will just sayBuy Now, it is clearly mentioned here, your orderwill be queued and executed when the marketwill open again. Tap on Buy Now, andProcessing Order and done, successfullyO God, once moreSo, to show you, I will go and say top tech stocks,like Alphabet or Google, and it will show youall the details that one is usually interestedin while buying a stock. I will go to Buy andyou can see that there are $.22 or 22 centsin my account. So I will enter 22 cents,Buy in dollars, and then it will tell me thatI will buy 0.000096 shares of Alphabet/Google.So, these are fractional shares and it also saysyour order will be queued and executed when
So, these are fractional shares and it also saysyour order will be queued and executed whenthe market will open again, because it is not
your order will be queued and executed whenthe market will open again, because it is notyet 7pm in India, so the market is not open.I will say Buy Now and it will Processing Orderand that’s it, done. Your order is successfullyqueued, it will be placed when the market is live.I have bought Google stocks worth $0.22 or 22 cents.It is as simple as that. No charge, nothing whatsoever.At any point, if you want to sell, you have tosimply go and select Sell. You can determineto sell in whatever unit or dollar value you want,and when the market opens, it will sell.Next is, you have sold those stocksand now you want to get that back to India.It is important to know 2 things for this.Number 1, when you want to get that money,then that will be transferred from Drivewealthto same bank account from which you gave itto them. It typically takes 5-10 business days,and there is a withdrawal fee of $20.So, you have to give a fee of $20, wheneveryou bring you money back from Drivewealthto India. For this, my recommendation wouldbe that it’s better not to bring back your moneyso often, because then you don’t have to paythese $20 and you can easily use that moneyto invest in the market or do whateverwhenever the time is right.Finally, a tip on buying. What should you buy?You can directly buy stocks. My favorite aretech stocks. In fact, I will soon make a videoon my top 20 US publicly listed stocks whichare in the industry of technology. But US alsohas something ETFs, which are basically likemutual funds, a basket or a portfolio of stocks.So, I like to invest in ETF too because ETFs aretheme based. You can invest in a tech ETF,a high growth ETF. You can invest inextremely focused ETFs, like an ETF of logisticsor locomotives or mobility. Then there issomething which is specifically focused onETF of bio-technology. There is an ETF in USwhich is focused on Israeli technology,so on and so forth. There are so many niches,I think there are around 2300 ETFs and of course,I am not going to make this video aboutwhich one to choose because that is not thepurpose of the video. The purpose of thevideo is how to buy and sell stocksand I have shown how that works.Finally, let’s talk about the taxes,because that is very important.First of all, Dividend tax, this means that if anystock announces a dividend, then how is it taxed?The arrangement between US and India forDividend tax is, that whatever dividend thatyou get, you will get after the tax is deductedfrom it and that will be 25%. This means that,if you have got a dividend of $100, then$25 out of that will be withheld in US taxand you will get $75, but you are an Indian,you are in India, you have got nothing to dowith US taxes. So, there is a tax treaty betweenUS and India, under which whenever youfile your tax in India, the $25 which are withheld in US,they will be recognized towards your advance tax.This means that, say whenever tax is deductedfrom your salary, that is recognized as your tax,similarly this dividend tax which has beendeducted in the US, will be recognized as taxwhich is already paid for. So, nothing to worry,that 25% which will be deducted, that can beeasily claimed when you are filing your income tax.Now capital gain tax, this tax means that wheneveryou sell your stock at a certain price, you earn aprofit on it and then you have to bear a tax onthat profit or gain. They are of 2 types,long-term capital gain and short-term capital gain.There definition is US is, if you sell your stockwithin 24 months, then it is called ashort-term capital gain, which means,if you have bought a stock and then you sell itwithin 2 years and earn a profit, you have topay short-term capital gain tax, which in theUS is 20%. You will have to pay this tax in India,so it will not be withheld in the US,you will have to pay this tax in India.But since all the transactions have happenedthrough RBI, everybody what has been boughtand sold and all that, you can’t evade it,you can’t hide it, you will have to pay it,amount into 20%.If you sell this stock after 2 years, then it isrecognized as long-term capital gain tax,and tax will be levied on your capital gain,according to your income, meaning whicheverincome tax slab you will belong to,according to that you will have to pay your tax.This my friends, is the nut and bolt of theUS stock investing journey for you to begin on.A quick summary, number 1, I use Indmoney,you can any app you want but my preferenceis Indmoney since I started 1.5 years back,and it remains that. To open an account,you have to have a PAN card and an address proof.You basically open an Indmoney account,link your bank account to it. If your bank account isin IDFC, ICICI, HDFC or Kotak bank, then youcan online transfer money to your US brokerageaccount. If it is in some other bank, then you willhave to do it physically. In a year, $250,000 iswhat is permitted under the LRS for an Indian national,meaning you can invest around ₹2,00,00,000 instocks every financial year. To do this, once youraccount is open, you have to go to your bankand add Drivewealth LLC, which is the partnerof Indmoney, to your bank account as youroverseas beneficiary. It is simple just like weadd any other beneficiary when wemake a payment to them through net banking.You will add them, transfer the money,within 3-5 business days it will reflect in yourstock market link in Indmoney app.You will have to bear charges for this,I use ICICI and it charges ₹1000 plus GST pluswhatever interval or difference happens in theexchange rate, which is why my suggestionis to transfer in bulk and sell in bulk too,so that you minimize your losses because ofthese withdrawal fess and the transfer fees.Once your money is in Indmoney, then youare free to buy and sell. Fractional shares is thebest thing about the US. You can start as low as10 cents to buy your shares, like I showed you,I bought Google/ Alphabet shares for 22 centsand it is simple as that. Markets are open from7pm to 1:30am and in the month of wintersthey are open from 8pm to 2:30am.But you can place the order at any time,whenever the market opens, your order will be executed.When you have to sell, simple as that,sell it and you can sell whatever you want.Indmoney doesn’t charge anything for buying and selling.You have to pay a withdrawal fees of $20 whenyou withdraw plus the difference in the exchange rate,which your bank will definitely charge.If a dividend is issued, then 25% of that dividendamount is withheld, which you canclaim in your income tax filing in India.If you sell your stock within 2 years,then it is recognized under short-term capital gain,in which you will have pay 20% tax in India.If you sell your stock after 2 years,then you will have to long-term capital gain,which will be according to your income tax slab.