Number 1: Loss aversion bias. This bias says that the joy of our victory, in comparison to that,the pain of our loss or defeat is way more.We are averse toloss a lot morethan we are happytowards gains. Now, in case of money,how is this exhibited?Consider you madean investment.You bought mutual funds, you bought stocks,or maybe you haveinvested in real estate,and now it is in a loss.You start feeling the pain, and we,even if we knowthat the asset is now bad,is wrong, and would not work for us,we do not sell it because we do not actuallywant to feel that loss.This is such afundamental money mistakewhich is born from aloss aversion bias.Number 2: Confirmation bias.It’s an interesting bias.It means that if something isstuck in our minds,in our hearts,then we try to look fordata and news and opinion to confirm it. It's almost as ifwithout considering anything else,we consider the things thatgive us the confirmation bias.Suppose you like amutual fund, or a stock, or you fall in the with crypto,then you would startignoring everything.“That stock does nothave a good team.That stock’s last 5-yearportfolio was very bad.That stock has a highdebt-to-equity ratio,or crypto has seenso many downfalls.”You forget all thatand focus on just one thing that,“The stock did very wellin the last 2 years.Crypto did so wellin the last 2 months.This asset did so wellin the last few days.There is good newscoming from there.There is a good sentimentcoming from there. So, you are looking activelyfor news, opinion or datathat confirms your beliefs. This is called confirmation bias,a sure-shot mistake of money, if you engage in it.Number 3: Anchoring bias. Anchoring bias iswhenever we areevaluating a price,the first prize that we hear,we ultimately keeprevolving around it.So, suppose youwent to buy a car, or a house,and the firstprice you are told,you will close your decisionsomewhere around it.That's why car salesmenstart listing out theprices from the top model,because they know thatif they anchor you at 10 lakhs,then you would at leastby the 8-lakh car,if you actuallywant to buy a car,or if there isa broker showingyou a house,and if you like the house, they will tell you that thisparty will not agree toanything less than 1 crore.Maybe they wouldagree at 90 lakhs,but they have nowanchored you at 1 crore.So, even if the dealcloses at 95 lakhs, you will feel like it was a good deal.This is called anchoring. Try to escape this bias because it is visible everywhere, and particularly around money. It makes us waste money.Number 4: Herd mentality bias, or as I like to call it, FOMO bias.We see itwhen the world isgoing after something,and we feel like,“Are we stupid that weare not going after it? We should also follow it.”And you start following it.The classic example of that is crypto.In 2021, crypto rose so fast.Why?Because everyonewas chasing crypto.They felt likethey will become rich overnight,and that is the waythat you should start investing,and so many people burntthemselves in that process,and if you are along believer in crypto, like I am a long believer.I have bought Crypto andI keep buying it even now,but I also know thatI am ready to park it and wait for 10 years.I do not want toget rich overnight. So, I am not going tobe driven by herd mentality. If people are selling,then I won't sell it.If people are buying it, or theyare buying some random coin, I don't buy it.I am very clear onwhat I have to do, but this herd mentality, peer pressure,FOMO investing will ruin you ruin youwill completely ruin youif you do not focus on it.Number 5: Overconfidence bias.Overconfidence biasis really obvious butin case of money,it is really common.It means that if in the past,if you made someright decisions,then you instantlybecome overconfidentin your abilityor your skillto deliver the same return.So, suppose you gavesomeone a stock tip, or you bought an asset, whether it was a mutual fund or stocks or small caseor anything else,and it worked, then you feel like now you have arrived. You know the game.“Now, just like Mr. Jhunjhunwala, I am going to be a crorepati.I will now startexecuting the same thing again and again.” Overconfidence bias.You bought a shop and rented it.It worked very well, and you are like,“Now, we will justkeep opening shops,and we will rent them all.”Or you bought a stockand you had a reason why you bought that stock. “This stock has potential.Something is going to happen here.”And it happened,and you suddenlybecome overconfident,and you startthrowing that money into the overconfidence.You need to be aware ofthis overconfidence bias, not just in case of money,but for everything in life.Number 6: Sunk-cost fallacy.A really big bias whenit comes to money. Sunk-cost fallacy meansif we have already putmoney into something,then we keep puttingmoney into iteven if it does not make sense.Let's pick an example.Suppose you aregoing to buy a stock,or a mutual fund,and it starts falling.So, you feel,“It's falling.Let's buy morebecause it's cheaper now. It will rise again.” And that is irrespectiveeven if you know itwill keep falling. It will not rise.Something fundamentallywrong has happened in itwhich is why itwill keep falling.Or suppose you arerenovating your house,and the renovationbudget has been exceeded. A lot of money has been spent,but even then, youwill not stop it and you will keep moving forward.Why?Because you have alreadyspent a lot money.This is called sunk-cost fallacy. In the case of money,an extremely big mistake.Number 7: Availability bias. If something is easily available,then we feel thatit should be done.We do not exploreother options.For example,someone is trying tosell us insurance,and your insurancebroker tells you,“This is a great insurance, sir.These are the features.These are the returns.You will earn thismuch on this premium, and all these things, and I will do everything.You just give me yourAadhar or PAN card, and I will do the rest.”You are likelier tobuy that insurance.Why?Because it is easily available.The entire evaluationthat you should have done,“Let's look for otherinsurance policies.Term insurance orinvestment insurance,or maybe anothercompany’s insurance, or for a different term, or for a different cover,or with a different rider.” You will ignore all that.Why? Because in front of you,there is an easilyavailable option.So, you will not evaluateall other options. Another good example of thisis when you go to buy a car.What a lot of dealersdo nowadays isthey send the car for atest drive to your home.You do not need togo to the showroom. Why do you think they do that? So much expenses,so much hard work,finding someone's house randomly without any idea how far it is,and sending a car there. Why?Because they make it easy for you to make that choice.The car is available to you. They come, and now they have a contact point as well.At that point, they showyou the car as well,and they sell allthe features as well,and they process your loan,they deal with all the documents,and then, you will suddenly feelthat the car is easily available,and you are likelierto make that purchaseif other options areharder to evaluate.Availability bias.Number 8: Extremely interesting. It's called Endowment effect. It says that whenever you buy something, or you own something, then automatically in your mind, the value of that thing increases. An interesting experiment was conducted for this. People were asked that, consider this phone. People were asked, “What would you pay for this phone?”Number 8:Extremely interesting effect.It's called Endowment effect. It saysthat whenever you buy something, or you own something, then automatically in your mind,the value of thatthing increases.An interesting experimentwas conducted for this.People were asked that, consider this phone.People were asked,“What would you payfor this phone?” So, people said whatever. 20,000 rupees.Whatever.Then people were asked, “This phone is yours.What would you sellthis phone for?” Then people said 30,000 rupees, and this is interesting, right? If you do not own that thing, you value at less,and if the same thing is yours,you want to gainmore value from it. Now, how does it translate into money mistakes.Consider that you have an asset,and it could be a stockor a mutual fund or a house or a car, I mean a car is not an asset but anything else with respect to money,and now is the righttime to sell it.But in your mind,its value is very high. So, you won't sell itbecause you feel like, “No.This house is worthat least 1.25 crores.I will not sell itfor 1.2 crores.”And you do not move,and you then fall prey to what is called the  endowment effect. Don't make this mistake.Number 9: The gambler's fallacy.It's really interesting.When you toss a coin,what is the probabilityof getting a head? 50-50Suppose you tossedthe coin five times,and it was a head every time.Now, the 6th time,what is theprobability of a tail? 50-50It has not changed, right? But in our minds, when we gamble, we think in a different way. We feel like, “It was a head five times.Now, it will be a tail.” We thinkthat because something ishappening continuously,then either it will continue, or something new will happen,and we completelyignore the probability.And that’s the same thing that we do with money as well. A stock or a mutual fund rises every day,then you feel like, “It has been rising for 5 days. Now, it will fall.”There is no sense in it.There is no logic to that.You are simply driving itby Gambler’s fallacy,and this is a big mistakewhen it comes toinvesting your money.Number 10: Present bias.It says that whateveris happening right now,recently, it is more important.I am ready to forgetthe entire history. This is the biggest reasonwhy people continueto make mistakes in money.If you look at it correctly,in the last 100-150 years,there have been somany recessions.So many times, themarket has fallenand it has risen.We have so many data points,not justof the world but ofour country as well,to tell you that historykeeps repeating itself.Every 5-6 years,there will be a recession,there will be acorrection in the market.Every 5-6 years, after that dip, it will rise again.Every 5-10 years,on an average,people will get thesame return percentage, and yetwe feel trapped into the present.So, we feel like, “The stock is rising right now.Let’s not buy it.It will be expensive. The stock is falling right now.Let's buy it.It will be cheap.”We ignore what has happened over a period of timeand what history tells us. This is called the present bias,something that doesnot make us smartwhen it comes tomanaging and investing money.Number 11: Over-optimism bias.You can compare it withthe overconfidence bias.Basically,your confidence ismaybe not on yourselfbut you are over optimisticabout what is going tohappen in the world. So, you feel like,"Crypto will rise.",not because of your confidence, but you feel it will risebecause it is Bitcoin, because it is Ethereum,because it is something.Or you bought a DLFproperty in Gurgaon.It will rise because it is DLF, and there is no sense in it. There may be some sense in it,but there is an over optimism due to which a bias is created,and then you fall prey tothe confirmation bias as wellbecause if you are movingforward with that optimism,then you will see every data,every opinionwith the same perspective and through that glass.So, you will be like, “Yeah, I was optimisticand look at it.The last time DLF launched,within 24 hours, all theproperties were sold.” We should invest here. We will make money here, and you then become prey to that bias.Number 12: The status-quo bias. Very interesting.Perhaps the biggest reason why people do not end upowning money.The status-quo bias says thathowever things are going on, let them be.Why should we change? Why, for example,do people still have moneyparked in a fixed deposit?A fixed deposit givesyou 5%, maximum 6%.It might give 7%. After taxes,it will be 5-5.5%. Every year, inflationreduces the valueof your money by 6%.This is the inflationof our country.Your own inflation isway more than that,because you buy verydifferent things.You spend on entertainment, travel, food ordering, education more than the rest,and that means your lifestyle inflation might be 8-10%.It means every year, the moneyparked in your fixed deposit,its value is decreasing by 3-4%.Despite that, peopledon't move it. Why don't they? Status-quo bias.The way things are going on, let them be,because that is the easy thing. It's the known devil.We know it.It is familiar territory,and just like that,it will go on. We might change it in future, but that future will never come, that tomorrow will not happen, and you will be stuck.Don't make that mistake.Number 13: Recency bias.Recency bias is slightlydifferent from the present bias.Recency bias says thatwhatever has happened recently,based on that,I will make my decision,because you don't remember what happened in the pastwith you alone. So, you have forgottenwhat were the emotions?When it happened the last time,how did I feel? What did I learn in it?No.You forget everything.There are so many peoplewho again and again and againmake the samemistakes with money. They buy penny stocksbecause they feel theywill grow overnight.They buy the sameget-rich-overnight schemesbecause they feel theywill earn money from them.They make the same mistakes of taking more and more loansbecause they feel likethey'll repay the loan some day. And all this is recency bias,because whatever ishappening with us recently,that influences us more, and that is not something that makes you a smart money manager.Number 14:Number 14:Kind of opposite, which isRegret Aversion.Whatever happenedwith you last time,that hit your mind,your heart so hardthat you will not beable to forget it, and you willextrapolate it to makeyour money decisions. For example,you made an investment.Let's say you invested in stocks, or in mutual funds,and God forbid,it did not do well.Actually, it didn't do anything. Your moneybecame less than before, or it was lost.So, you will stickit in your mind,that stocks and mutualfunds must not be boughtbecause the regret, the “Only if……I did not do this.Only if I did something else. Only if I didn't listen to him.Only if I didn'tlisten to Ankur Warikoo and do all those things.”That regret hasconsumed you so muchthat you do not wantto feel it again. So, you will be like, “Just end it.I don't want to doall these things.We do not want to feelthose things again.”So, you are never be able to look at the same thing again and give it another chance.You should give another chance,not because we areemotionally asking for it but because in reality, there was something that did not work in the past.It does not mean thatit will not work now.Stock market and mutual funds are the best examples.Whenever you invest money in it,it might happenthat you lose money.It might happen thatyou earn money, but the truth is,based on that, you cannotmake your future decisionsbecause it is a long-term game, it is long term investment, and for 5-10 years,you will keep lookingat the ups and downsfor you to actually see thelong-term benefit of investing. In the stock market,or in any otherfinancial instrument that you want to invest.Don't let your regretfrom the past determine the future.These 14 emotional biases,which stop us frombeing smart with money,and we have to overcome that.Tell me in the comment section which one of thesefor you was the most interesting, most reflective so that through your experience, you can teach others as well. Ankur Warikoo,signing off.