In 2022,300 people were fired from Wipro for something called Moonlighting. At that point, people didn’t even know, most of the people didn’t knowwhat was moonlighting?And suddenlyovernight,moonlighting became theheadline of all conversations.What is moonlighting?And why should youcare about it,worry about itor watch out for it?In this video,we’ll try to find out. First of all,what is moonlighting?Moonlighting is a fundamental termwhere along with a primary job,you have a secondary jobor a source of income.And its genesisis said to happenat a point wherea farmer wouldwork during the daybecause of the sun.But because theycould work moreand they could earn more money,so even in moon light, they would work. Light of the moon.And that’s how the term ‘Moonlighting’What it became today is that you have a day job,where you are afull-time employee. And along with that,you also have a part-time job through which you earn an additional income.Moonlighting surprisingly is allowed by the Indian law.So, there is no lawwhere moonlightingis not allowed legally. If you have a full-time role, you can have a part-time rolealong with that as well.However,there are many ifs and buts around thiswhich we’ll see in this video.First of all,let’s try to see thebenefits of moonlighting.Some are quite obvious.Some are not.Number 1An obvious benefitthat you get anadditional income.And this is something I stressquite often in my videos.With your primary income,you can neverwin the financial freedom race.Fun fact; not a fun fact.Actually, a depressing fact.From 2012 to 2022,if your income was 100 rupees.I meant in 2012.So, in 2022, it is around 130-135 rupees.But in 2012,the thing that wouldcost 100 rupees,meaning its price was 100 rupees.In 2022, it costs around 160 rupees. It costs 160 rupees now!Which meansthe income is not rising as fast asthe expenses are rising.So, your income will keep rising. You will feel thatyou will get annual appraisals and so on.But if you don’t have anadditional source of incomethen you are notsetting yourself upfor financial freedom.Moonlighting provides that.Along with a day job,you can have a second job or a freelancing gigor a part-time opportunitythrough which you getadditional income.And that of course isof course isa better waytowards your financial freedom.Number 2Skill development.If you actually take amoonlighting opportunitywhere you learn something new or what you already do, you get better at itthen of course, that’sa great way for youto develop your skilloutside of your day job.Quite often, in a day job,you are not able to develop skills because you have a routine. You have an outcome.Your manager tellsyou what to do.Company targets and goals.So, you stay focused on them and maybethe skill developmenttakes a lot longer.But if you have afreelancing opportunity orif you want to findthat opportunity then you have no choice but to become good at that skillthat you want to earn,through which you want to earn. And that’s why the skill development partduring a moonlighting opportunitybecome a non-trivial aspect of it.Number 3Networking.And networking happens because in moonlighting opportunities,you send cold emails or you talk to people. Maybe you need to sell. So, you learn about sales.You connect with new people. All of thatadds to your repertoireof networking skills. So, a lot of people, outside your office, outside your company, outside your brand,when you meet them then naturally,your mind will open up.You’ll find new things.You’ll have new conversations.And that will only add to your personalityover a longer period.And number 4. One of my favourites, especially in your 20s.Moonlighting givesyou the opportunityto explore new areas.I have often stressed this and I’ll say it again.Lots of people make this mistake that in their 20s,they try to settlebecause the worldkeeps saying that.Complete your studies.Get married.Have at least 1 child.Down payment for the car.Down payment for the house.The hustle of getting settled.We get so stuck in itthat we don’t step back to ask ourselves that“Do we know what wewant to do in life?”“Have we evaluated all thosethings that we wanted to do?”Every single field, every single stream,every single opportunitywhere we felt excitedbut we never gotthe chance to learnmore about it,to test it better.And the answer is NO.If you are in a hurry to settle then it won’t happen. But if you try to live your 20s in a different waywhere in this decade,you say that “I will explore.” “I will try to learn everything that excites me, that I want to do,that makes me happy, that I am good at.And I will figure that out.”Butit is not practical to gofrom one job to second,from second job to third or from third job to fourth.People say,“To follow your passion, quit your job.” It’s a stupid advice. It is not practical.You have to live life.You have expenses. You have bills to pay.You have EMI and rent to pay. How do you do that?You do that, in my opinion,by having a day job.A job that teaches you something.Your bills are paid.Your salary coversyour living expenses.And then,you are focusedjust as much on that day job as you are on anew opportunity as well.And this is usuallya stint of 1-2 monthswhere for 1-2 months,you become a student.You take online courses.You join communities. You do internships. In moonlighting opportunities, you figure out what new things you can learn? And at the end of it,you ask yourself that,“Am I enjoying it or not?”If not, then a new job ora new opportunityor a new field or a new stream. And if yes, then continue with that.Go deeper into it.Pickup evenmore interestingmoonlighting opportunitieswhere you do internships over a long-term period orwork on projectswith individuals.And that is how you explore while having the stability of a job in your hand.Moonlightingprovides that option.Without quitting your core job,while enjoying itsfinancial stability,you explore newer opportunities which is whatsmart people should ideally do.Butclearly, moonlighting also has drawbacks.Some of them whichare specific to you.Some of themwhich could be legal and have implicationsjust like the 300people from Wipro who lost their jobsbecause they werecaught moonlighting.As I said,moonlighting is not a crime. But how you do it could be illegaland I’ll show you how? The first drawbackof moonlighting is time management.If your day job takes awayall your time.Physically, mentally, emotionally, you are drained then how will you have the timeto do something else?But if you do it even then, because it is necessary or you want to do it,you begin tomismanage your time.You don’t respect your timeor you can’t do itand through that, you start hampering almost everything else.Your relationships arethrown in the back seat.Your health is thrownin the back seat.Your sleep is thrownin the back seat.All the things thatare actuallynecessary to live life become unimportant.Money or the moonlighting opportunity becomes important. And the next thing you knowis after feelingcompletely burnt out,you realise at the end of itthat the benefit was very lessand the cost you had to bear was too much.Number 2This burnout, due to it, your longevity is impacted.When do most people moonlight? In your 20s,early 30s,when you have energy,you have time,you have passion,you have enthusiasm.But if in that period, you find yourself burning out then the very long racewhich is still left of your late 30s, of your entire 40s,of your 50s,there you justfeel uninterested.You have alreadyspent so much energyin just living your life early on that you don’t haveany energy left.And then it becomes a lifeless life to live,at least professionally.You do not wantthat for yourself.And that could bea big drawbackof moonlighting if you take it too aggressively or too seriously.Number 3And the biggest thing. Conflict of interest.Recently,I received an email.Seemed like a smart girl.Email was well written.It was a cold email. I did not know of her. She knew of me.And she was like, “I work in an IT company.Really good job. I am growing really well.My manager loves me. I get good salary.Everything is there.But I feelthat I have a lot of time. So, I want to use it properly.” And I had a clientwho had started a new project.And he was veryhappy with my workwhen I worked with him.So, that client wrote to her and said,“Would you be interested inworking on this project with us?And that will be outside of the day job.”Because the project was over and so on.And she asked mewhether it was the rightthing to do or not?I had just one question.And that question was that whether that clientis in the same industry as your core company? And her answer was yes. If the answer is yes,the immediate response isConflict of InterestYou cannot do it. You should not do it.And the reason whyis because you arein the same industry.You will use the same tools.You will use thesame techniques.It might happen thatintentionally or unintentionally,the secrets of your core company, due to which it is strong, it is good, it has a market share,you might share itwith your client.And that is notwhat somebody wants.This is what happened with Wipro.Wipro found out thatthese 300 peoplewere working withtheir competitors,which almost meant that they had access to Wiproand they were working withthe competitors of Wipro.So, it might have happened,and I don’t the details of this. It might have happenedthe intellectual propertyowned by of Wipro,they shared it withthe competitors in sort of acorporate espionage or a corporate fraud.And that’s not okay.It is not okay.So, conflict of interest is the biggest drawback of moonlighting.Whenever you considermoonlighting opportunities,then go as far awayfrom your core industry as possible.The best example of that is from my own personal life.When I graduatedfrom ISB in 2006,I started a managementconsulting jobwith this companycalled A.T. Kearney.And it’s an amazing company.Really good people.Really amazing work.So, with a lot of smart people,I was working on verymeaningful projects.And in 2007, around1.5 years working intomanagement consulting,I met a batchmate from ISB. And he said that, “I have started a new websiteand I wanted to talkto you about it.”I said, “Sure.What is the name of the website?” And he said,“It’s called SecondShaadi.com.”So, it was India’s firstmatrimonial website for remarriages. For second marriages.And I found that ideavery interesting.So, I told Vivek,who was founder ofSecondShaadi that,“Can I be helpful in any way?”And he was like,“Yes. I wouldlove to see if you and I cando this together andsee where it goes.”But I was at a pointwhere I didn’t want toquit my consulting joband work onSecondShaadi full-time.Because for the first time, I was learning so much. For the first time, I was earning money. I had many responsibilities.In 2007, I got married.So, that was an additionalresponsibility as well.So, I told Vivek that,“Whatever time I canmake after consulting,I would want to usethat for SecondShaadiand let’s just see where it goes and I hope you’re okay.”So, he said very graciouslythat that’s perfectly fine.Let’s do that.But I did not wantthis to be an area of concern.So, I remember I went backto the managementof A.T.Kearney. I had 2 bosseswho I knew very well.I could confide in them.And I went and Iexplained what I wanted to do.And it was beautifulhow well they received it.They were like:Only 2 things are needed.First,don’t do anythingthat’s a conflict.And thankfully,consulting and matrimonialdon’t have a conflict.They are not evenremotely related.And second,your core job that you havewhich is consulting for which you get a salary,which is your day job.Don’t ever ignore that.And we will point it outbecause the momentyou start ignoring,it will be visible.And that was theonly thing that they said.And they wished me well.They were like,“You know what.It’s lovely that you are doing it.It’s lovely that youare figuring it out.”And I use thatso wonderfully in my lifebecause when I started Groupon, when I started Nearbuy, there were a lot of people which wanted to moonlight,wanted to explore new areas. And I was like,“You know what. Do it. Do it as much as you want.Do it happily.Till there is no conflict, it doesn’t matter.”In fact, I remember, in our marketing team at Nearbuy,there was a guy,Anukool.He is doing very well now.He is the head of marketing for Tinder India.He used to do so many things. Along with Nearbuy;and that was a demanding job. He also ran a restaurant. He also ran a shirt company.He was exploringa thousand things.He was aperson with an enterprising,entrepreneurial mindset.And I used to love that.I used to always admire himthat how do youmake so much time?But he used to do that and then he was alwaysone arm distance fromwhat Nearbuy was doing.No conflict.Nothing. So, moonlighting as I saidis allowed,is legal but you have to follow the boundaries of what is there. So, how do you check that?And these are the 3 thingsthat you have to watch out for. Number 1If you want to moonlight along with your day job, first of all,your company’s offer letter, check that out.Nowadays, a lot ofcompanies clearly mentionwhether you canmoonlight or not? And if you can,in which areas it is allowedand where it is not allowed? As I said,a lot companies willtry to write thatmoonlighting is not allowed or it is not legal.But that is a lie.Moonlighting is allowed.So, no one can technicallyhold you backfrom working in additional opportunities.But they have the right to define the contour or the boundary according to which you can work.So, the first thingyou have to do is to check the offer letter. Number 2If you get amoonlighting opportunity,according to me, it is always goodto have a conversationwith your company.Your manager,your manager’s manager, the HR,tell themand it’s not about permission.It’s just about information.So, you don’t have to say,“Should I do it or not? Will you feel bad?”It is more about,“I am doing this and I wanted you toknow of it so that there is noproblem in the future.”It might happen thatsome people might not agree.“How can you do that? We defined it in the offer letter.”Have a reasonable conversation. And trust me,if they feel likeyou are doing something that will not disturb your core job and it is far away from the industry of the company, no one will feel bad because at some point,they might have been doing this and that is absolutely fine.But it is a conversationyou should haveaccording to me.And number 3Very, very important. While moonlighting,never ever use yourcompany’s resources.Don’t work in the company office for the moonlighting thing.So, you can’t use their internet.You can’t use their laptop. You can’t use their printer.You can’t use theirservices or facilitiesincluding your time.If you have a 9-to-5 declared time, then in that time,you cannot work on yourmoonlighting opportunity.That is not allowedbecause you have a full-time rolefor which you geta full-time salary. And your obligation is to fulfil that responsibility.Beyond that,what you want to dois your life.It is your decision.So, if you work from homefor that moonlighting opportunity,perfectly fine.If you use your personal laptop,perfectly fine.If you use your own internet,perfectly fine.If you use yourown mobile phone and not the company’s phone,perfectly fine.All of thosehave to be kept separatewhich is the basic thing thatevery commonsensical person should know of. These 3 thingsif kept clear by youthen moonlighting isa terrific opportunityfor you to learn more, to earn more, to explore more.And my recommendation is if you are in your 20sthen please, please, please use itand do not thinkor be scaredthat it is not allowed.Instead, if you approach it reasonably as an adult,you’ll be surprised at how companies are willing, they are helpingand they are allowingfor people to moonlight.I hope this video was helpful for you.Ankur Warikoo. Signing off.