Your salary is less, but you want to buy a bike, you want to buy a phone,you want to buy a car,you want to go on aninternational vacation, you want to get married,you want to getyour kids married,you also have to spendon their education,you also have to planfor your retirement.How will all this happen? Let's play with Excel.Firstly, basic setup.Your current age, I have assumed, is 25 years.You can enter anything.These green cells are for you.You can play with them.So, when you find this sheet inthe pinned comment and description through the link,you won't be able to edit that.Download it and input your variables.In this video, I will show youhow you can use this Excel sheet.So, I have assumed that youare 25 years old right now.You are going to earntill the age of 60.Your income right now is ₹30,000.So, within these ₹30,000,your entire lifeand all your desires, youhave to live your dream life. And through this sheet, of course, a life cannot be a sheet, but through this sheet, we will try to understand thatthrough budgeting and through planning,how can you do that?We will assume someincrements for every year. So, in every job, you get an increment,and it's obvious that the incrementwill not always be constant,of course, for the entireperiod of your working career.So, I have assumed that the first 10 years, your increment will be 10% per annum. After that, it would be 8%. Then 6%.And then, the last twodecades or 20 years, it will be 4% eachbecause the base would havebecome large enough, and so on.You may not believe it.You would say, “It's too much.It's too less.” Whatever. You can enter your own numbers to give you a sense thatthis would be the salary movement. So, at the age of 25,your yearly salary is ₹3,60,000.Next year, you get an increment of 10%. So, it becomes almost ₹4,00,000. Then, ₹4,35,000.And if we keep moving like this,then at the age of 60,when you will retire,your salary would be nearly ₹44,00,000. Right now, you would think, “How will I earn ₹44,00,000?”Right now, you would think,“Who will pay me ₹44,00,000?Where will I get it?”But this is the scenario35 years from now. Right now, you are 25 years old.We are talking aboutwhen you will be 60.But this is the scenario35 years from now.Right now, you are 25 years old.We are talking aboutwhen you will be 60.So, clearly, this is going to happen. I won't say clearly but maybe you won't believe itbut this will happen.So, if you don't believe it,then, of course, you canchange all of these numbers.And due to this,your final number would also change.Whatever you wish. It is absolutely up to you.After this,we will make the mostimportant decision, that the salary which we get, how will we split it?I have started with a 50:30:20 ratio,which is the basic ruleof personal finance,I have started through that.You can take any other split.So, I have said, “50% of our salarywill go towards our needs.The things we need. The expense of living life.”Your rent, EMI, electricity bill,food expenses, transportation expenses, you will have to spend on them for you to live life.But you also want to enjoy life.Not like, “Invest everythingand then, when you wouldhave no teeth left, you wouldn't be able to do things,you wouldn't be able to walk, you will be crorepati then.Ha! Ha! Ha!” No.We will contribute 30% of oursalary towards our desires.So, through this, we will party,we will buy our phone,we will go on small vacations.All these things can bedone through this 30%.Beyond this, all the bigexpenses, how would you do those? I will teach you in this video.The 20% which is left,we will invest it.This is the starting, but along with this,another twist is introduced.The twist is thatour expenses, how fast are they increasing?So, I have assumed 3 expenses.First of all, the expense of money, which is normally, whatever costs ₹100 today, how much will it cost after 1 year?And I have assumed that it will grow at 5%.Our inflation is currently at 5-6%. So, I have assumed that. But it is not necessary that it applies in our lives as well.So, I am also giving you the flexibility that it might happen that your needs, the things that you need,the rate of increase of their costs, the rate at which they increase,that might be different from inflation. And I have assumed it to be 5%.You can assume it to be anything. If you think,“I don't have a lot of expenses.We want to live in one house. We want to live small life.We don't want to expand our needs.So, it will be 5%.”You can also say,“My desires, the inflation of my wants,I want to increase it. I want to spend a lot of good money as I make more money. So, this inflation of mine,which is usually calledlifestyle inflation,it would be more than theactual money inflation.”So, you can use that. You can make it may be 7%,or whatever that number is.We will actually see thatby changing this number,how our overall numbers change? Like that’s the fascinating bitabout this Excel sheet.And then,the rest of the moneywhich we will invest, which is this 20%, how will we invest it?So, I have taken2 simple components for it. You can take as many as you want,but I have tried notto complicate it.First of all, I have said,“We will invest somemoney in fixed return.” You want to invest in FD.You want to invest in provident fund.You want to invest in National Savings Certificate, or anything else.So, what percentage of your investmentwill you invest in thisinstrument of fixed return?Because we have assumed that we willinvest the rest in equity market.We won't buy stocks. We will buy mutual funds.We won’t put much thought into it.We will invest passively,and it will continue to grow. At what rate will it grow?It will be fixed rate of return,wherever we deploy it,what will be its percentage? I have assumed it to be 8%.It can be lesser thanthis or more than this.It's your wish.And then, the returnof the stock market,what will it be on an average? I have assumed it to be 13%.And then, how much taxwill be have to pay? Whenever we decide tosell this investment,how much tax will be needto pay the government? I have assumed it to be 15%.Now, let's see how this game changes. Just like I showed the salary sheet, the salary sheet is simple. Your salary will keep increasing.Till the age of 60, youwill earn ₹44,00,000.After that, your salary will be zero.And then, whateverinvestments you made,you will have to liveyour old age with that.I have considered thistill the age of 100.I hope you live longer than that, but I have assumed till then. If you are alive beyond 100,then the Ankur Warikoo of that time,you can use his Excel sheet to plan. I won't be there.Expenses.This is where it gets interesting.So,let's cover two simple expenses, and get them out of our way.Firstly, the expense of your needs. It could be your EMI, your electricity bills,your clothes, basic clothes, not party clothes,food and beverage expense,transportation expense.You will cover them withyour expense for needs.So, at the age of 25,when your salary is ₹3,60,000,out of that, for a year,₹1,80,000 is what you canspend towards your needs, meaning ₹15,000 a month.This is what you get to fulfil your needs.Now, you need to staywithin this amount. You don't have a choice.This is the principle of budgeting. Whatever your needs are,they should be fulfilledusing these ₹15,000 only. If that meansstaying in a smaller house, if that means staying away far,if that means cooking at home,if that means not maybe wearing as many clothes,may be not having the AC on for a really long time,or maybe taking the public transport, all of those choices have to be made for you to be disciplined aboutyour entire lifebecause through this sheet,and through this approach, we are trying thatwhile starting witha salary of ₹30,000, how can we live a normal, good, wealthy, and fulfilling life,at least when it comes to money, keeping emotional aspects aside. And then,your desires.We have kept money for desires. So, we have said, in a year,₹1,08,000 rupees is what youcan spend towards desires.Now, whatever you want to do,if you want to buy aniPhone for ₹1,00,000, or you will be smart and say,I say smart because that will be theright thing to do according to me,“Let's buy a good Androidphone for ₹10,000-15000,and the rest for other things. You may eat out, you may buy something for parents,you may buy somethingfor girlfriend/boyfriend,you my go on a small vacation.You basically have a well-rounded life.It's not likejust to show the world that I have an iPhone,you spend all your money there, and you don't have anything left.No.And then,you start dreaming your dream life.What do you want from your dream life? So, I have given options.Of course, you are free to choosewhatever those options are. So, you can change its nameand insert it here.Now, here is what you have to think. First of all,at what age do youwant that thing?And what is the amountyou need for that?Now, what would be the amountat that time, you don't know it. So, I am making it simple for you.Today, how much doesthat thing cost,enter that number.I will automaticallycalculate it for inflation,that what will be its costor value at that time?So, you don't have to worry about it?You just have to put what is the cost of that dream in today's money terms? For example, you want to buy a two-wheeler,and you’re like, “I have startedearning at the age of 25.At the age of 27, I wantto buy a two-wheeler. And for that, I will pay ₹50,000as down payment.” Whatever. It could be ₹65,000.“Then, at the age of 30, I will buy a car, and the down payment of the car would be ₹1,00,000 of today.So, I will, let’s say,buy a Maruti Swift of₹5,00,000-8,00,000 or a Desire.I will buy a car in that range. ₹1,00,000 would be the down payment from my side.I should not worry about it.The loan that I would take, its EMIwould be taken out ofmy budget of desires.So, this amountof ₹1,40,000 per year,that is what I will useto make sure that Ican also pay my EMI.But I will make a down payment.” Then let's sayat the age of 33, or whatever it is,you want to go on your firstinternational vacation,and you say, “For aninternational vacation,I will spend ₹5,00,000.”₹5,00,000 rupees of today. What will it be then?We will decide later. Then, at the age of 37,you want to buy a house,and you are like,“I will buy a house for₹50,00,000-70,00,000 of today. ₹15,00,000 as it's down payment,I will pay it.And aftforer buying that house,whatever loan I would need to take, that will then come from my needs or my wants or a budget of them.”That is what you willhave to plan for.And then, let's keep going.Let say you have kids,and you want to spend ₹25,00,000of today for their education.So, you will be like,at the age of 48.If you have a secondkid, then 52 years.Then, your first kid’s marriage.But kids today are advanced,they don't ask parents for money.But we will give them somegifts, or however it will be. So, we will gift them ₹10,00,000.We will gift the secondkid ₹10,00,000 as well.And you can add any other expense you want.Whatever the case maybe. Okay. Andyou will then just put this in the Excel sheet.Now, here is what I will do for you.Let's come to the investment sheet. In the investment sheet,it looks complicated,but essentially simple.We are sayingthat every year, we willmake this investment, which at the age of 25,of the ₹3,60,000 we were earning,₹72,000 or 20% of that,we will invest it.This will be the split of this investment.So, fixed instruments, or assetswith fixed rate of return,we will put ₹14,400 in them,and the rest ₹57,600, we willput in the equity market. This will be our return,according to the rate of return.Now, the fixed instrumentwill have a fixed return.Rate of return of equity is variable. It has its ups and downs,but over a long period of time, this will be more or less equal.This sheet will give you an impressionthat everything inlife can be calculatedwith a decimal-point precision.But no.This is a guiding sheet. This is not set in concrete, like you cannot go beyond this,this is the final declaration.This basically means this could happen, is possibly likely to happen more less if I planned it like that. This doesn't mean it will happen.That is a big caveat. And then, these expenses. Now, these expenses are interesting.On the investment sheet,your age and your annual investment is there.It means from your salary of ₹3,60,000,you will invest ₹72,000,which is 20% of it.What will be the splitof this investment? So, fixed instrument,which could be fixeddeposit or PF or anything,we will put ₹14,400 in them,and we will put ₹57,600in the equity market.Thiswould be your return on an average. So, the important thing here is the fixed rate of return is fixed.So, it is, in a way, fixed for you. It is guaranteed,nothing is always guaranteed, but more or less, you know it.In equity,it's not necessary thatthis number will be there. There may be ups and downs.There may be fluctuations.So, it's important that you don'tconsider this sheet as permanent,and don't consider thisas the ultimate truth.You look at it as a guiding document. This is what is likely to happen.There will be years whenthis will not happen. There will be years when it will happen. More than what is predicted,less than what is predicted,but overall, more or less,if I try to live mylife in this manner,I would hopefully landmore or less here. So, you will have a rate of return. And then, expenses.Now, in expenses you willnotice something interesting.Here, the expense is ₹79,000. Now, if you go back and see what did you entered as the expense?That was ₹65,000. So, what was this?This is the inflation adjusted amount. So, just like I said, inflation is eating away your money,and the bike whichcosts ₹65,000 today,that at the age of 27,meaning after 3 years,would cost almost ₹80,000. So, this is how inflation willmake the cost of things go up.So, everything that you put into it,that is inflation adjusted.Let's look at this.So, at the age of 37,what are you doing? At the age of 37,the downpayment you aremaking for the house, that would actually be₹30,00,000because the cost of the housewould have increased at this rate.Now, you can increase and decrease this rate of inflation if you don't agree with it butthat is how we have planned it.And you will see your total corpus. In fact, this is the most important number. Let's make this bold. Okay. Your life should have one purpose.This number cannot be negativebecause this means thatyou are out of money.Let me show you an example.If I say something like, “Let's have some fun in life.Let's have some fun in life.Let's do this. Instead of₹1,00,000, we will pay₹5,00,000 as down payment. Let's buy a new carwhich costs ₹25,00,000.Okay. I have started earning money.Ankur Warikoo has alsogiven the Excel sheet. ₹25,00,000.” Now, when you do that, come here,you see what happens.Negative amount. I have made this red.It means, sorry, my friend, it's out of your league. It won't happen,and you have to adjust.So, you will be like, “It is negative. Let's see. Will ₹4,00,000 work?” Let's see.Yeah. Now, it's positive. Wonderful.Is every number positive? Yes.Good to go.Thismakes things so easy, right?This is brilliant because now I know that I am well within the range.Of course, you could also be like,“This number should not beless than a certain number.”So, let'smake that format.Conditional formatting,I have added conditionalformatting right now of zero,but instead of zero,it should not be less than ₹5,00,000.This number should notgo below ₹5,00,000. Let's do thatand let see. Ooh!There are many occurrences.Now, in the beginning,let's ignore it because it will beless than ₹5,00,000 in the beginning. But you will see that after the first expense,  just like this bike,and due to the bike,this becomes almost ₹2,60,000.Should I buy it? ShouldI not at that time?This is the car expense.This is the payment for your house. So, you will basically figure outwhich amount is right or notfor me at what point of life? And you will see all the way down.Next.When you will retire, which is this age, right?From the age of 61,you do not have an income, but you still have expenses. Here, right?Your expenses are still going on.Your expenses will not stop.The expensive youhad for your life,and the expenses ofliving a normal life.So, how will thatplay around?What will happen is that your corpus,it will slowly keep decreasing. Now, it is not decreasing.It is increasing. Why? Because your expensesare slightly lesserthan the right amount.But your corpus, it isstill growing at 10-15%, 10-12%,at the rate of 10-12% because you have put money in FD,you have put money in equity. So, it's a good happy state.But let's see howthese things very quickly.Let's keep this format as it is. You say, “You know what?My expenses are going to increase.They will increase at 8%. In fact, my expense of needswill be more than the inflation.My desires will definitely be more. I will buy expensive phones and many more things.”Look at this.Game over, my friend.Your entire amount,at the age of 63, is finished.All your money, at the age of 63, is finished. You don't have money.And this is not the biggest concern.You ran out of moneyeven before that.You don't have money.What does it tell you? That lifestyle inflation is a thing, that if your needs, and this is so sensitive.Let's go back.Let's change this 8% to 7%.Let's come back here see.See this.This 63 years becomes 70.Your inflation, lifestyle inflation,we reduced it by 1%and you got 7 more years of expenses. You will keep your inflation of needs equal to the inflation of money,and you will not increase it.If it does increase,then you will reduce itsomehow and maintain it at 5%. Look at this.96.It means you will alwayshave money in life.Yes, there will be pointswhere you will not have money,like this. It cannot go negative.It's not possible.So, it means that at the age of 37,the dreamyou had a buying ahouse with ₹15,00,000,either you will have toreduce this number of 15,or you will have toincrease this number of 37. So, if I increase this 37 to 38,then see. All solved.Just solved.This is the beauty of budgeting. You can live your dream lifewith a starting salaryof just ₹30,000.But what you have to have is the discipline of how to spend your money? How much money for needs?How much money for desires?How much money for investment?How to split it?And the more you do that,the more you will benefit.Let me give you another example.You say, “You know what?Ankur Warikoo is stupid.He keeps talking about equity. I have invested some money in it.My heartbeat is racing.I opened my Demat account. I invested money, and the next day, it was negative.I don't want to do it. I want everything in FD. 100%.”Here. Okay. But you see why I say FD will not work for you. I have nothing against FD. I don't like FDbecause it does notwork for the objective of living your life.FD will keep you poor.It is introduced withthe just one objective,that by containing you in some form,by paralyzing you with loan, by sucking money out of you, the bank should keep earning money, but you should be stuck.And I want you to be free.I want you to fly.The way you should live your life,you live it that way.And for that, if you put 100% of your money,I have assumed this to be 8%,FD gives 6% returns,if you put 100% ofyour money in FD, then you will enjoy. “Wow! I did nothingand ₹100 became ₹108.Then, ₹108 became ₹117.It's a good life. It's good.” But look at this.All things you want to do in life,you will be unable to do them.And you then need to come backand be like, “Okay.Let's do 50-50.”Okay. Let's see. Yeah, works, butat the age of 75,your money is finished.So, you should either hope thatyou die before the age of 75, or you should hopeto dissolve some FDsand put money in equity, whichever way it is.You are in charge.This sheet will only guide you.So,let's summarize.You will start at a certain age.You will finish at a certain age.You will start with a certain salary. How will you increase that salary,you will decide it. Howwill your expenses be, you will decide it.And how will you spend that money,at what rate thoseexpenses will increase,you will decide it.The money that you will be left with,which you should invest, how will you invest it, you will decide it.And due to this, you will say, “What is my dream life?”What do you want to buy? What do you want to spend on? When do you want to spend?How much do you want to spend?You will document everysingle thing here, and you only and onlyhave to look at this sheetto tell you that at any point, red or negative must not be there.This is what I have to promise myself, and if with this discipline,I live my life,and with this discipline,if I start to live my life, then I will be able to live my dream life with whatever income I have.My income is not my excuse anymore. My managementand budgeting is the reason why I didn't do it,but I hope and I believe you will do it.Go ahead and dreamyour dream life.Ankur Warikoo, signing off.