Your morning routineactually beginsthe previous night.It's 9:40 p.m. right now.I finished readingmy book just now,and now it's time to sleep.I will wake up in themorning at around 5:00 a.m.and my day will start.The first thing after I wake up which I dois a beautiful thing.Often, when we wake up,we wake up in a hurry,in time fora meeting, in time for your work,in time for your class.Right after I wake up, for 15 minutes,I drink a glass of water.No phone.No book.No music.No person.Just this glass of water.For the first 1-2 hours,I don't speak even a word. Today, for this video, for you,I am speaking a lot.We live on the 13th floor,and this spotis my favourite spot because often,I spend my 15 minutes here with my glass of water.It's 5:11 a.m.5:12 a.m.And now, it's timefor meditation.For meditation,I sit at one place for half hour and meditate,and I find this placereally beautiful.This is our main balcony.We havea really beautiful wind chime herewhich we bought from Pondicherry, and when there is a breeze...With this sound,I sit in a place and use an app,which is called Calm, I meditate for half hour.On the Calm app, I use thesounds of sparrows,breeze and water, and every 10 minutes,a sound rings which tells me that10 minutes have passed.After three rings,my meditation ends.It's 5:44 a.m.The day has begun,and now it's time for my reading.For reading,I use Kindle,and I have a favourite spot,the same one I use for meditation, but in a different posture.while relaxing,while lying down.I like Kindle because I can make multiple highlights.And whenever I amdone reading a book, when I finish it,I can export thosehighlights in a PDF and email it to myself.That in a way becomesthe summary of my book.So, I read every line again. I try to understandhow I can apply it in my life,and then I make a plan,Which of these thingsdid I feel were themost beneficial for me? And keeping that in mind,after a month, a kind of an action plan emerges regarding that book, and through this,whatever learningsare there in a book,I try to derive them.I don't try to rememberanything while reading a book.Whatever applies in my life,I apply them.Whatever doesn't apply, move on from that. I reada book for 30-40 minutes every day,Even before I sleep at night,15, 20 or 25 minutes, whatever.I read very fast. I don't read every line. I skip a lot.So, if I read a book everyday for 30-45 minutes,then in a week,I can easily cover4.5-5 hours of reading,No need to take any load.It's not a race.You have to enjoy books.You have to read bookswhich you enjoy reading, Books are your means to understand yourself, to understand the world,It's 6:09 a.m.and I've just finished my reading. Now, it's time for something. I am not doing it,but this is the time for my ‘Do Epic Shit’But there is a smalldifference here.So, right now my kid’svacations are going on,and during my kid’s vacations, this time around 6:00 a.m.,that is when I sit on the pot and relieve myself.But the more important thing iswhen my kid’s school is going on,then my responsibilityis to get them ready.So, I wake them upat around 6:00 a.m. and Vidur,who is 12 years old, gets ready by himself.Uzma is 6 years oldand she requires some help.So, I help her.And when Ruchi comesback at 6:30 a.m.,she takes them to the bus stopwhich is right infront of the houseand I go for my tennis.For around 15 minutes, I will check my WhatsApp and some of my emails.I have not openedmy social media yet.And then after that,when I have checked someof my emails and WhatsApp, I change into my tennis clothes and then get readyto leave at 6:30 a.m. for tennis.T-shirt. Shorts.Socks.After tennis, immediately,I go to the gym.And I am ready for tennis.It's 6:33 a.m. Time for tennis,and look who has joined me.Aditya, who will startshooting me right nowbecause I will be playing tennis. So, Aditya, good morning. Good morning.And let's get started.So, as I mentioned, the tennis court is in our complexand it’s not too far away.Aditya is behind me7:38 a.m. Just finished tennis.Aditya is also here, and now is the time for gym.Gym is also in the complex, which is a flex,Gym is usually for about45 minutes.At the gym, there could betwo kinds of exercises.One is cardio,but the second oneis weight training.So, you lift weights.That's what I do.Every day, mixed.No specific body parts. I used to do body parts earlier butmy latest trainer,Sagar is his name,he has given me an interestingexercise regime of 6 dayswhere I mix body parts. So, I’ll see.Today is Friday.What will be thebody parts for Friday?And I’ll do those. So, right now,we are going towards the gym,but before that, I have to changemy gearbecause I am sweating like crazyand I have to make surethat I change my t-shirt.So, inside.Alright,All set for the gymThis is Dilip,Sonu.They are our trainers at the gym.They are the reason behindmy fitness and everything.So, today, it's a mix of chest,biceps and triceps.For every exercise,three reps,which is repetitions.You start witheither increasing weights.or increasing reps.Both of them havecompletely different objectives. With increasing weights,you are basicallybuilding more musclebecause you are putting morepressure on your muscles,and with increasing reps,you are just making the muscles a lot more oriented.I keep fluctuating but often,I just dosame weights,increasing reps.So, I go for 10, 12, 14 reps.One set,three repetitions,and rotation sets.So, 10 and 12 are done. Now, I will go for 14. 8:28 a.m.Gym is over.Now, heading back home.I feel so alive, and I feel that this just sets me up for the day So much breath,so much oxygen,so much blood is flowing that it's actually everything that I would wish for.Once I am back, this is my library.I am old school.No news channel or anything. No TV as well.That's why,2 newspapers.Economic Timesand Hindustan Times. This is not a sponsored post. I read headlines.I skip through theimportant parts.I don't waste time inthe sports section, nor in the current affairs.For real time news,there is Twitter, and that's what I use.Time to brush my teeth.Today is Friday.So, usually, it’s not shoot day,but I had been travellingfor the last 2 weeks.So, today will be a shoot day.And on every shoot day,I shave.So, shaving right now.Then, checking myweight every day.Wow!This is the lowest I have been in the last 10 years.8:55 a.m. And it's shower time.I am ready.On my shoot day,I apply mousse on my hairso that my hair is set and continuity is maintained. On my eyebrows too becausethey are so thick.And I am set.9:20 a.m. Time for the protein shake, and supplements,and nuts. It's 9:25 a.m.,and now it's time forme to start my day.My work day.My studio isone floor downstairs.There is also theoffice guest house. So, Aditya,Piyushand Shaurya, whoare part of my team usually stay here,and one room is what theyhave given me as my studio, which is where I am entering.So, this is the setup from where I shoot all my videos.It's 9:25 a.m.and I am starting my day. I take my first mealat 11:00 a.m.So, it's 9:30 right now.I will work for almost an hour. I will go upstairs again.My second meal isaround 5:00 p.m.,and these are the onlytwo meals that I have.I perform an intermittentfast of 18 hours, and within 6 hours,I take my food.I don't eat my foodrecklessly as well.In a very controlled manner,but that's something that I havestarted doing for the last 4-5 months.It's workedwonderfully well for me.Fat loss, muscle gain,high protein diet,all of that, part of my daily routine.And you would now realizethat I woke up at 4:50 a.m.Around 9:30 a.m.,I started working,which meansI have 4.5 hoursto do things that Iwant to do for myself.Meditating, reading,getting ready,working out,playing tennis, getting my kids ready for school,having a lovely time with my newspaper,These 4.5-5 hours that I get every day set me up for the entire daybecause after this,whatever happens, there will be very few thingswhich will shake me.And that is the power of a morning routine.You can start the morning routineat whatever time you want.You don't need to do itat 5:00 in the morning. You can start it at 8:00 a.m. or 9:00 a.m.,but whenever do it, it must be a routine.And thisis how the morning routine works.I hope this was useful.It felt really good sharingmy day with all of you,and it was a little weird because I don't speak too much in the morning,but I hopewhatever I shared with you,through that, yougain some inspiration for yourself, for your life. This is Ankur Warikoo,signing off.