Alright. Let’s go next.My favorite US startups in which I even invest.We’ll learn those in this video.Friends, I recently made a video on US stock investingand how I use Indmoney for my stock investingFriends, I recently made a video on US stock investing.If you are in your 20’s or if you have never investedin the US stock market then check out that videobecause through that you can beginyour US stock investing journey.In this video, I want to share all the US stockswith you which I feel are veryNo. I won’t say this.In this video, I will share my list of favorite startupswhich are public companies which means you canbuy their stock. Please, this is not financial advice.I am a tech entrepreneur, I have only spent my wholelife in technology so my whole horizon is limited to that only.So whichever suggestion I’m giving you, they are mypersonal suggestions. Please don’t take them at face value.This list is only meant as my favorite list of US public stocks.It is not important that these are also your favorites.Number 1. Zoom. Zoom is a company that createsvery good video conferencing softwarebut in the last one, one and a half year,after the pandemic people used it so much andbecause of that they could understand itso much that this technology is very powerful,remains one of my favorite US stocks.Tesla. You must’ve heard the name.Tesla is a favorite not just because Elon Musk is amaverick and a very crazy entrepreneurbut I genuinely believe that electric cars are goingto be a complete revolution in this world.100% of the cars, sooner than later will beelectric and Tesla is at its forefront so I alwaysinvest in market leaders which is why, Tesla.Netflix. Netflix is our favorite. Several people’sfavorite and Netflix is powerful because it’s notjust a content company, it’s also a contentproduction company. It not only streams contentbut it creates its own, own, own, own.It creates its own content and that is specific togeographies as well. They have made so manyshows for India, they make them for US too and Igenuinely believe that in terms of entertainment,except Netflix and YouTube there are veryfew companies that can be compared to them.Amdocs. Amdocs is a much-underrated company,if you read about it then you will realize howimportant the work Amdocs is doing on a global level.And it is one of the market leaders in thefact that it allows for documentation,for processing, for management.No, one minute. I just want to make sureI know exactly what Amdocs does.Okay.Amdocs. Amdocs is a much underrated company,in fact, it’s not even a US company, it was foundedin Israel but it is listed in the US and it is basicallya market leader in communication digital serviceswhich has exploded in the lastone and a half years and I think it willget bigger later, again, a market leaderposition and that’s why a favorite.Square. Square, I’d say, is the biggestoffline payment processing company in the USand it is revolutionizing. The way payments areaccepted in the market. Brilliant company.It is one of my favorites. Simply because they tooka very simple niche and turned it into such ahuge industry where it’s not just providingpayment processing solutions but now they’redoing financing, data, marketing, hardwareand it is incredible that they made so manysolutions and offerings with just payments.Again, market leader position.HubSpot. HubSpot is a marketing solutions companyand in this world, where we are requiringmore marketing, HubSpot is right in the centerof offering that not just to US orAmerican companies but globally.Next. Cloudflare. Cloudfare is a websiteinfrastructure and a software.Security services.Cloudflare is a website infrastructure andsecurity services company which is a veryimportant aspect of managing your infrastructureonline or digitally and Cloudflare, again,is one of the market leaders, does a brilliant job.Great growth. Great margins.Greta leadership. It has my money.Adobe. Adobe is a company which I genuinelythink has transformed so much because therewas a time when Adobe used to make suchexpensive software, be it Photoshop, be itPremiere Pro, be it whatever. But now it realizedthat it will have to take up a digital form and
Premiere Pro, be it whatever. But now it realizedthat it will have to take up a digital form andnow it is a digital company, out and out.It is remarkably affordable now to use allof the brilliant software that Adobe makes.Based on that, I think Adobe got reincarnatedand it is a super exciting company to bet on.Spotify. Spotify is a global leader in audio,whether it is music, whether it is podcasts,there is a brilliant inventory, a lot of exclusive shows,from Joe Rogan to many other huge people,even many Indians are signing up.I think the way YouTube and Netflix areat the video end, Spotify is at the audio endand it is absolutely unparalleled.Again, market leader position, entertainment,exciting industry, it has my money.Apple was once, indisputably my favorite companybut now it’s not that much. In terms of innovationit is getting weaker but frankly, its innovation’s leveland position was so high that even if it fell a little,it would still be ahead of so many people.
and position was so high that even if it fell a little,it would still be ahead of so many people.The phones that it makes, the software andthe hardware that it makes. Brilliant. Brilliant. Brilliant.I really like Apple, as a company.Simply because of the fact that they knowwhere their market is. The intently focus on it,keep their prices high, keep great margins.And through that, it continues to attract my money.Amazon. I think undisputedly one of the world’smost powerful companies. It is incrediblehow much Amazon can do. And it’ll be interestingto see what kind of company Amazon becomesafter Jeff Bezos leaves us. But I feel like afterhow much they fought in the last 27-30 yearsunder his leadership, that company is set,now it is just going to grow, grow, grow, grow.So it is just one of those stocks whichyou should always keep buying, never stop.At least that’s my approach.Broadcom. A very interesting, muchunderrated company makes semiconductor chipslike phones, tablets, PCs are increasing,which will keep increasing. Like how newdevices are being introduced which are usingsmaller and faster semiconductor devices justlike that Broadcom’s market will keep increasing.It is one of the top, if not the top playerin its segment. It has my money.Twilio. Twilio is a very interesting company.Whichever texts, SMSs, WhatsApp messages,emails are sent, all of those, not all of those,most of those go through a Twilio service in the US.It is a great platform for people to reach outto its customers across multiple mediums.I feel like as outreach increases, as people createtheir distribution network, a service likeTwilio will be very critical service. It has growntremendously in the last several years.Continues to. It has my money.GoDaddy. It’s a very old company but it isunbelievable how interesting it still is.GoDaddy is a domain name registrar,but it does a lot of other things.But its main business is domain name registration.So whenever you buy a domain name,XYZ.com or .in or dot whatever so it ismost likely going through GoDaddy.It is an undisputed market leader, a very strong brand,terrific margins, it is definitely a stock to look out for.Microsoft seems like a very boring companybut genuinely, under Satya Nadella,I feel like Microsoft has evolved into a new form,from being a very MS Office kind of a company,now it is like a Cloud Company. It is giving Cloud solutionsthrough Azure and it has naturally becomea digital platform where it is offering MS Excel,sorry, MS Office in a digital complete format,on the Cloud again. It is into multiple thingsbeyond just hardware and software.So, it is an incredibly transformed companyand if you look at its financials,if you look at its ratios, you will be left impressed.Definitely is a stock to consider.Salesforce. If you name anybody in CRM orCustomer Relationship Management then thefirst name will be Salesforce. It’s such a hugegiant in this niche, it can’t even be called a niche,now it has become a very big segment.But it’s such a huge giant that it is unbelievablehow much power it just has.Definitely one of the absolutely strong companiesto look out for from a stock investing perspective.Shopify. At one end is Amazon and at the other is Shopify.Amazon keep everything to itself.It has its own inventory, logistics.Shopify is the distributive network,I can open a shop on Shopify, you can open one.So it is like the direct opposite of Amazon and yet,just as big, if not bigger, potential.So, I genuinely feel that in tomorrow’s world,an Amazon and a Shopify will coexistand if I look at Amazon’s trajectorythen I believe in Shopify a lot.Facebook. Not because it is Facebook butbecause it is WhatsApp, and it is Instagramand it is so many more things that weprobably don’t even know. Facebook hasbecome a conglomerate and it genuinelyenjoys the most attention in the worldbecause take Facebook Messenger,take Instagram, take WhatsApp,take its other platforms. In some way,someone in the world, if they are onlinethen they are definitely using someFacebook product. This is why I don’tuse Facebook but as a company,it’s a stock that I would perhaps buy.Google simply because it is Google.Nobody can ignore or deny Google,nobody can say I would buy any otherstock but not Google. If I am naming allthese stocks, then it would of me to notname Google. Its product still remainsabsolutely one of the biggest used, I think,if I am not wrong, Google has the highestnumber of products with one billion plus usersusing it. Whether it is Gmail or Google Mapsor Google search, so on and so forth.Incredible company! Incredible financials! Super exciting!Docusign, the moment this pandemic started,and the offline world started diminishing,then everything went online,and a very important part of offline isdocument signing, getting contracts in place,so all that went online and the Docusignwas right at the ebb of it. It’s quite anold company but they have createdall the online documentation with such mastery,that it is very very hard to compete with it,that’s why it has my money.And last, SnowflakeAnd last, Snowflake, it is a cloud computing company,it is quite interesting and there is a lot of buzzabout it in the tech world. It is a companythat I have been watching for a really long while.I have invested in it and it is something thatI would put in to my list of the top publiclylisted tech companies in the US.These are all the publicly listed tech companiesin which I have invested in.A question for you and a very exciting giveaway.I have stocks of only 5 companies among these20 companies, others I have either bought or sold,but I am tracking them, I still have the stocksof 5 companies. If you are able to tell me thename of those 5 companies, I don’t knowhow you will do that, I don’t know if I havegiven a hint by my face or my expressionthat these are the 5, but if you can somehow,then I will give the thing which is my mostexpensive possession and that it my time.So, whosoever is able to list those 5 stocks,I will randomly select someone and I willspend half-an-hour with them on whateverwe have to. It could be investing tips,it could be discussing life, whatever that you wantto know or I want to ask you.Basically, a nice happy 30-minute timebecause that is most expensive thing that I cangive you and I am more than happy to do it.5 stocks which are still there in my portfolio,in my US stock investing portfolio.I hope this was useful.Ankue Warikoo, signing off!