Your friend texts you on WhatsApp and tells you,“Day after tomorrow,7 PM, in the evening, remind meto give you this thing.” And you’re like,“Yeah, bro.”“I’ll do it.”But you won’t do it.Not because it's not important but becauseyou’ll forget it.You have millions ofthings to remember.How will you remember this?And you will then think,“Not a problem.”“I’ll remember it.” Because at that time,it feels like it will stay in your mind. But it doesn’t. Your mindshould not be usedto remember things.It should be used to do things.That’s whynumber 1 tool,the best purchase;because this is noteven a purchase. It’s absolutely free,that I use to max my productivity is Google Calendar.Everything that I have to do.Everyone that I have to meet.Every task that I have to do every week, every day.Any reminder that is necessary in my life. Every thing goes on Google Calendarbecause I don’t want to use my brain to remember anything.So here it is.This is my27 February Calendar for the whole week.I am shooting thisvideo on 27 Feb.And you will seeeverything in my week is already there.These are my shoot dayswhere I shoot adsin the morning.Then I have my weekly shoots. I am doing that now. Next day, on Tuesday,I have all my meetings.All of them are here.On Wednesday,Warikoo Wanderings,my newsletter,I write that.In the evening,I reply my AMA orAsk-Me-Anything on Instagram.I have,with my ads team;the agency that we have,ScaleX.I have a meeting with them. On Thursday,I have some meetings.On Friday mornings,I write a thread.And then,Ruchi and I go for a weekly lunch.In the evening,our YouTube team has a session. And then, at night,Friday, 10 PM,I have my Instagram live.And then there are things that are repeating at a monthly level.So my Citi Bank billfor my credit card,I have to pay that, which happens monthlyonthird day. Then every quarter,I donate blood.So it’s a reminder there.But on 4th,I am travelling to Calcutta for my book tour. So instead of this week,I’ll do it next week.And then Uzma, my daughter,she has a class. Then, Sunday morning,I need to send my trainer my fitness reportsfor the entire week.So on and so forth.So you’ll see,there is nothing at allthat I have to doSo you’ll see,there is nothing at all that I have to dobut I am forcing mybrain to remember it.No.Empty your brain.Use it only for doing.And tool number 1.Get used to Google Calendar.Tool number 2.Using Pomodoro Technique.What is Pomodoro technique?We work in slabs of 30 minutes. 25 minutes of work.5 minutes of break.25 minutes of work.5 minutes of break.And after 4 Pomodoros,we take a long 30-minute break. After that,we repeat 4 Pomodoros.In a day,In a day, if youcomplete 8 Pomodoros,meaning you do4 hours of work but you do it in that 25+5 minute slots,you will max out your productivity.For that,I use an app calledFocus To-Do.It is for Pomodoro and tasks.It has a premium version butfrankly, I neverneeded the premiumbecause through premium, you can sync across devices and all that.So, if you are interestedin all those thingsthen you can purchase itbut the free versionDid I say butbut the free versionis enough. And that is what I would suggest.I am going to take a lot ofbrand names in this video.None of these brandshave paid me for it.This is not a sponsored video.I am just sharingall the brands thatI personally use. So please,don’t explore just these brands or use just these brands.You do your own homeworkand decide what is best for you.These are my cheap purchases which have helped me in my productivity.Number 3.Time blocker apps.I lot of people writeto me saying thaton Instagram,on YouTube,on Netflixand other places, they spend a lot of time. A lot of time gets wasted.And I tell them, “Don’t do it then.”They ask, “How?”“Install time blockers.”Time blocker is an appthat limits your control over other apps.So you can actually set that in the entire day, you’ll use an app for 1 hour, another app for half hour.Only on Monday,Tuesday, Wednesday, you’ll use a certain app.On Saturday and Sunday,you’ll use another app.It is absolutely insane and the best app for that;Again,free but a premium version is there.It's Premium version is useful, is called an app,Stay Focused.And in this,not only apps but sites can also be blocked.So if you work ona laptop or desktop,so you can alsoblock those or restrict the access.My hack isthat I block them,and not just block, I password protect them too.And I don't have the password. It’s with Ruchi.So, if I really need it,she will open it up for mebut I can’t open it up myself.but I can’t open it up myself.And this is my way of saying that even ifI am craving for it,1 hour is over, then it says‘Enter the password’‘for another 15 minutes’ I can’t do it and that keeps me focused.It gives me discipline.Number 4.A really simple,cheap purchase butit’s so effective.A white board.As you can see,this white boardif used properly,it can always actnot just as productivity toolbut also as an inspiration tool.There are so many peoplewho keep their whiteboards in front of themand write down theirmanifestations on it. “This year, I’ll do this.”“This year, I’ll go there.” “This year, I’ll earn this much.” Whatever the case may be.Whatever your goals are. Whatever your aspirations are. But it is alsoa great thing forme to use it asa checklist. “I have to do this today.”“I must complete these.” “These are in my to-do list.”And those are the ways that I keep checking.When you see it infront of your eyes,things getting checked off, it just makes youfeel a lot more productive, a lot more organised,a lot more focusedand that helps you in your productivity.A white board, for every single person, is necessary.Next.And this is a psychological hack. Very interesting. If you use a mouse,just like I do, the click of the mouse distracts usandthere are so manyclicks in the world;click, click, click, click,that we feel that when we click more,we are more productive.But our mind is getting distractedbecause it’s not usedto this kind of a noise.Because 50 years ago,there were no mouse clicks.For millions of years,our minds never heardthese mouse clicks.These clicks have beenaround for just 50 years.And that’s why it’s not used to it. It gets distracted.So, I have boughta silent wireless mouse for me.It is a Logitech device.Really amazing.Mine is white.You can check out the black one. It’s cheaper.Why spend so much money?Only Rs. 699.But the best thing is that it’s silent. So, when you click,there is no sound.And thismakes it super awesomewhere you areintently focused.It’s like using your fingers on the phone. The reason whywe keep doing whatwe are doingis because our fingers don’t create a sound.It is a natural process.And you would want toreplicate the same thingon your desktopor laptop as well.Next.Really interesting.Drinking water.Drinking water is important because,of course, it is a necessary ingredient to our body’s functioning.But water alsokeeps us active. If we keep dinking water.It’s not ‘dinking’.It’s ‘drinking’, Ankur.If we keep drinkingwater regularlythen our body stays active, feels freshand it keeps cleansing itself of any toxins that are being generated.But when you are working, busy in office work, busy in studyingthen we tend to forget it.A good hack is in front of you, keep a water bottle,which is what I do. But a better one is,use a reminder app.I use this app calledWater Reminder. I used this earlier. I don’t now becauseearlier, it wasn’t a habit.Now, it’s my habit to drink water. So now,I drink every hour. But if you don’t have a habit,with Water Reminder,you can set when you wouldwant to drink water.And all that it will do is,on your phone, remind youthat it is time to drink water. Simple.Such powerful hackto max your productivity.Next. I have often talked about thisthat your tablemust be organized.When things are organised, then your mind also startsWhen things are organised,then your mind also startsworking in an organised fashion.One of the waysthat I organise is this table organiser. It’s really simple. I really like it because; by the way,these are remotes for my lightsand they are in the order.I have 3 lights. So it’s literally like the first one,second and third.And in same order,first, second and third.It has this nice happy drawer.So, I have kept some things here. These are my pencils. These are my pens.This is my paper cutter.These are my scissors,stapler. And this literallyis everything that I need.I don’t need anything else.And it’s beautifulthat it’s there on the table itself so that nothing is out of placeand it’s just there as an access. So, my tablestays cleanand this gives the brain also the wayto remain cleanand organised.Next. A digital clockNext.A digital clock for your table.On our phones,On our phones, we see the time.But I don’t want you to be picking up your phoneto look at the time.I also don’t wantall of you to have a smartwatch and it keeps pingingfor WhatsApp,call or anything else.Use it bare minimumso that you can track your steps and that’s all that there is.So this digital clockis something that I put on my table.Why digital? Because it gives precision in time.Unfortunately, this is not available in India. I bought it in US.But anything that you can find in India that digitally tells you the timeand looks good enoughis a must have for you. Because you willhave precisionin measuring timeand you will knowwhen to move onto do something elsewithout looking at your phone and without feeling the need that“Now that I haveopened my phone,I can watcha few Insta reels.”No.Next.Sticky notes.Sticky notes are a powerful avatar.I used sticky notes earlierbut now I use this padbecause it has literally a lot of notes.But it’s not sticky. But I don’t need themas I don’t pull them out.The reason why sticky notes work is you write a note and then you can stick it to wherever you want. So, a lot of people,on their desktop screen or their laptop screen, stick those notes.Or they will put it in their notebookbecause they knowthey will open it.Or they can put it in some textbook because they know they willread that page today or that book today.Whatever the reason may be.But sticky notesare really flexible, really cheapand really powerfulin productivity because you can literallyremind yourself basis what is the taskthat you are going to door wherever youare going to look. A lot of people, for example,this is the bestthing that they do. They will put sticky notesat nightThey will put sticky notes at nighton their bathroom mirrorso that when they wake up,the first they do isread the message.Feels really weird. You wrote it at night.So you’ll remember it.But our brain doesnot work like that.When we sleep at night,we dream in our sleep,our brain goes toa different world.And then, when youwake up the next morningand you read something,which is like ‘You are lovely.’Or ‘You are going to win the day.’ Or ‘Have a nice day.’Or ‘I love you.’It just feels really niceand that could be a great way for youto start your day on a productive level.Next. Notebook. Old-fashioned but never goes out of fashion.Through a notebook,you can captureall your thoughts.But the best use of this notebook in my opinionis to act as something called ‘Distraction Notebook’.Whenever you are workingand a thoughtstarts distracting you;“Had to do this.”“Had to call someone.”“Had to finish that task.” “Had to call that person.”“Shouldn’t have forgotten that.” Don’t attend to it.Don’t attend to it.Just write it in your notebook.And when you write in the notebook, you are telling your brain that this is necessaryand you are also telling that you don’t want to do it now.And when you have the time, come back to that notebook.That will help you.So, use this not just forwriting your thoughts,your ideas or anything you want to do but also to capture all the thoughtswhich are distracting you.Next.Paper organizer.If you use a notebookthen hopefully,you also use paper.I use a lot of loose papersand I will show you this.And, easy.This is my paper organizer. And in this,these papers are notes from my earlier videos.Then the middle papersare my ideasof what I have to work on.And these are new paperswhich I will useand put in any ofthe lower sections. And thishelps me organise my thoughts again.Why don’t I do this in notebook?Because notebooks fill up.And when they fill upthen I don’t know how to keep a track of it. That’s why I use this paper organizerso that whenever I need to see my YouTube video notesor write new ideas,I would have written the date. I would have written the time.And through that, I have instant access to everythingthat I have done in the past. It’s a brilliant organiser. Must have for every table.And finally.If you sit in yourchair all the time,which a lot of us do, then your back needs to be supported and rested.And if your back is right,you will be productive, my friend. So, I bought a White Willowmemory foam or cushion. This is actually for sittingbut I use it for my back. It works brilliantly. If not for sittingbut even if youuse it for your back then it will keep or tend to keepyour back straightbecause this is a memory foam. So, it forms itself into that shape.And then it comes backto its original shape. So, it remains straight. You get a nice firm back restand through this,you don’t slouch while workingand it gives you the entire feel.So, if you don’t havethe budget foran expensive chair then please buy this for nearly 1,000 rupeesbecause this will act asany ordinary chairconverted into ahigh quality back rest chairusing this cushion. These were mycheap purchases.These were my cheap purchasesto max out my productivity. If you have an ideathen please share itin the comment section,so that we can all get max productive in 2023and not do itat an exorbitant price.I hope this was useful.Ankur Warikoo. Signing off.