From ₹100 to ₹40,000,23 things which Ihave bought in 2023. Number 1:A bamboo toothbrush for my kids. Our kids, Uzma and Vidur,they use it. Bamboo is eco-friendly. They enjoy using it as well. It has light soft bristles,and of course,for ₹100, it's an absolute steal.Number 2: Cable organisers.Extremely effective.I have put them onmy table, and it's a brilliant wayI have put them on my tableand it's a brilliant way for you toorganise the cables of your devices.So, arranging them methodically, and then of course,have this sense of cleanliness,So, arranging them methodically, and have the sense of cleanliness, and of course, organisation.Some of these 23 thingscost less than ₹2,000,which I consider cheap.Many things cost more than ₹2,000 and I consider expensive,and you will get thechance in this videoto win some of these things.How? Number 1: Subscribe to the channel.Number 2: You haveto select two items. One which costs less than ₹2,000,and one which costsmore than ₹2,000,and you have to write itin the comment section. Number 3:After 2 weeks, we will randomly select people and grant their wish.So, they will be giftedone inexpensive and one expensive choice,whichever things they choose, and we will ship it to themabsolutely for free.Number 3:I don't like puttingup nails on the wallsbecause of course,the walls get damaged,and the noise is annoying,and the walls startcracking as well.So, these are 3M Hanging Strips.It's brilliant.It uses Velcro,and it’s super strong.So, you put one sticker on the walland one sticker on the wall hanging, and stick it using Velcro.So, it becomes really tightand sturdy,and this also savesyou from putting upnails on the walls.Only for ₹269.Number 4: I started a newfitness routine this year, but because I keep traveling,I do not have access tothe gym all the time. So, these resistance bands. I carry thembecause I can do all myexercises through themusing my body weightand the resistancethat these bands offer.Extremely brilliant investmentfor people who travel regularly,or their gym is far awayand they make that an excusefor not going to the gym.At your home,you can have your own gymwithout the equipments,only using these bands. Only for ₹426.Number 5:Number 5: Vitamin B supplements.Should you use supplements or not?I cannot give that advice.Only your doctor, your nutritionist,your trainer can give this advice.So, please don't choose thesesupplements just by watching this video.I am just showing thethings that I consume,and they might not be beneficial for you.I started taking thesupplements this year, which is vitamin B complex,and this enabled meto fill in any gapswhich could be caused byvitamin B deficiency in my body. I personally feel a lot active and energetic, but as I said,this is a personalized recommendation.So, please do nottake my word for it. Definitely not medical advice.Number 6: I love clocks, and I love clean clocks.This Ajanta clockis one of my favourites.We usually buy1-2 of these in a yeareither because someof them get damaged,or maybe we build a new room,or we feel like we needa new clock somewhere. Only for ₹465. Number 7: Whisker.It is used for mixingany powder andliquid things,like eggs and anything.We bought a whisker of a veryfamous Japanesebrand only for ₹490.Our son, Vidur, loves making cakes. So, this is something that he usesand it has genuinely helped a lot.He tells us how goodhis cakes are made.We certainly feel itbecause we feel the taste,and a large part of that isthe consistent whiskingwhich he is able to do.Number 8: Reed diffuser.I always have a reeddiffuser in my office.You can watch it onthe video as welland I always use itbecause a pleasantfragrance is alwaysthere in the room.This reed diffuser which I have bought is a little expensive because it lasts for a longer time, but if you cannot afford it,then this MINISO Reed Diffuser, which we use at our home, you can use it as well.It's only for ₹500. It lasts for almost a month, and every one month,you need to refill it.May be a big investment to make on a regular basis, but try it once.If you like the fragrance andyou feel it's a good investment, then you can continue using it.Out of these 23 things, you willget 2 things absolutely for free.One inexpensive thing whichcosts less than ₹2,000,and one expensive thingwhich costs more than ₹2,000. It's up to you to decide.Subscribe to the channel.Choose one inexpensive and oneexpensive thing in the comments. And number 3:After 2 weeks,Number 3: Wait for 2 weeks,then we will announce 5 winnerswho will get these 2 things absolutely freehome-delivered to them.Number 9:I play tennis, I go to the gym, and I sweat a lot.Drinking water during thistime is extremely important.So, this Solimo stainlesssteel water container,which is my bestfriend for the morning.Only for ₹519. Recently, my Kindlestopped working after 5 years.So, I bought a new Kindle which will be mentioned shortly,but along with that, I boughta Kindle cover as well,and I really lovedthis cover which said, “Finding joy in the journey.”which in some way isthe story of my life.“Finding the joy in the journey. The destination is a mystery.”This is not availableright now on Amazon,but when I bought it,it was for ₹699and this is my next inexpensive purchase.Next, because I travel internationally, every country has a different socket,different plug point,different power supply. So, an international travel adaptor.I have used a lot of them in the last 10-15 years but this one hands down, is my favourite. We bought it this year and it works so well.There are two USB chargers as well. It's only,I won’t say only, but it costs ₹1,150but I can only believe that if youfrequently travel internationally,this can be a greatinvestment for you.I work on a desktop,and I use a mouse,and I love silent mouse.So, this silent mouseis my favourite.It is a Logitech device. It’s called the Silent Plus Wireless Mouse. It is wireless andit is silent. It makes no noise.  It makes a faint sound. I don’t listen intently to it, and it’s for ₹1,195.I went to the US atthe start of this year,and because many electronic itemsare cheaply available in the US, we bought this camera for Uzma.It costs $25,which is slightly less than ₹2,000 but it’s a great camera,particularly for kids. It has a small memory.It has some games.Of course, the quality is not goodbut it is more than enough for kidsbecause they get their own camera. They enjoy taking photos. It also has a selfie camerawhich is so interesting for them, and it has all of these templates.What are they called?Templates? Snapchat?Filters! Old guy. Boomer.Ankur, boomer uncle. It has many filters. So, it has these filters as wellwhich you can use, and it’s a great investmentfor a child if you wantto gift them a camera.So, these were theinexpensive things or giftswhich we bought this yearfor less than ₹2,000. You can choose one of them,and now begins the listof the expensive gifts.Number 1: Bosch Hand Tool Kit.I feel every householdshould have thisbecause we call aplumber or a carpenter oran electrician for anysmall inconvenience,and I feel that we can dealwith a lot of them on our own,but we were never taught about it. This toolkit is a good start for you to do that.It has many pieces.66 in number. Bosch is well-reputed German brand,and it is only for ₹2,052.Next expensive investment,HealthifyMe Smart Scale.So, it is a weighing scale,and using the HealthifyMe app,you can integrate it tomeasure all your vital stats.What is your body fat percentage? What is your muscle mass percentage? What is your bone density?What is your protein density?What is your metabolic age? So on and so forth.Of course, your weight,your metabolic age,your protein levels,body fat percentage,hydration levels,muscle mass, visceral fat,BMR, skeletal mass,all of these are criticalbody metrics to track.I use it every 2 weeks right now.Of course, I measure mybody weight every day,but these vital stats whichdon’t move a lot every day, tracking them every 2 weeksgives me a nice happy lineand tells me whether I am progressing well towards my fitness goal or not.I bought a new smartwatchat the start of this year.Right now, and the irony of it all,it isn’t working right now.So, the experience was good so far.The best thing aboutthe Titan smartwatch is its battery life. It lasts at least 7 days,and I use it for almost everything.So, I use it for my alarm,my sleep tracking.When I am playing in the morning,I use it totrack my steps,calories and everything.Of course, notifications are there,and it’s a good basic smartwatch. I wouldn’t say the best but at this price, I felt, battery life included, and the Titan brand felt like a good purchase.I am happy with it but if the watch is not repaired,I have sent a videoregarding its malfunctionand their customerservice has not replied.If it comes, then I willwholly recommend it. If not,then maybe it wasan investment that didn’t work,or it worked for at least 7-8 months.It should have workedfor a lot longer. An investment of ₹4,000.Next, UPS.There are power cutssometimes in the officebut I can’t afford tohave my internet go down,I can’t afford to havemy computer go down.So, a UPS for it.It’s a great investment to make, and when I found this UPS from APC,after long hours ofresearch and review, I really liked it.It’s 660W.1100VA power backup is there, which is enough. It lasts a long time.Power cuts aren’t usually that longbut I wanted thatinvestment to come through,and it’s for ₹7,400.Next, Kindle.Just like I said,my Kindle stopped working.It worked well for 5 years.I genuinely sucked out its lifeand the money I paidfor it 5 years ago.So, it was the timeto buy a new one.So, I bought a newKindle for ₹8,000.I bought a new cover for it. I am happy.This is the 10th generation, which is the latest Kindle generation. It has Wi-Fi connectivity,a 6-inch display. That’s all I need.I don’t like backlight. I often read at night,and the best thing I likeabout this Kindle is due to the e-ink in it,your eyes don’t get tired.A thing about Kindle whichpeople don’t know is thatwhen you buy a Kindle,buying books doesn’tbecome free for you.You will have to buy books as well.Often, the Kindle versionof books is cheaperthat paperback or hardcoverbut it doesn’t meanthat they are free. So, a lot of people ask me to gift them a Kindle.I will gift it,but who will buy the books?If you don’t have themoney to buy books,or the intent, then please don’t buy a Kindlebecause it is abig one-time investmentfor you to make.Yes, you can get a Kindle forfree after watching this video.How?Just like I said,you have to subscribe to this channel to qualify for this giveaway.Choose one inexpensiveand one expensive item and comment it.And then, after two weeks, we will choose 5 winners who willget these 2 things for freehome-delivered to you. Next big investmentwhich we made 2 years ago but this time, we bought for a friend, and I really wanted to mention it. Nutribullet PRO Blender/Mixer/Smoothie maker. I make protein shakes in it.We make smoothies in it.Of course, a lot ofthings are blended in it.Nutribullet is a greatbrand for all of this.It is expensive. It cost us ₹8,500,but I felt it was awonderful investment to make,and we are thoroughly, thoroughly happy about it.A lot of videos are being made,in high definition, in 4k quality.Each video is about 4-8 GB,which naturally requireshard drive space.We upload almosteverything on Google DriveWe upload almosteverything on Google Drivebut it is also in therange of 10-20 TBs,and in the same investment, we couldhave purchased many more hard disks.So, we made an investment inthis hard drive of 5 TBs and it is for ₹11,299.If we look at GoogleDrive prices for the same,then we have recovered thisamount within 3 months, and now we have the videos in our hard drive as well for easy access for anyone in the team. Next, HP Laserjet.This was a brilliantpurchase this year for 2 reasons.I had Inkjet earlier. I don’t know the reason for buying it. It’s slow.It consumes a lot of ink.So, I needed a laserjet.I don’t need colourprintouts right now.So, black-and-white printsare all that I need,and that’s why it’s monochrome.Scanner/copier is agreat investment becauseall photocopies of any documentscan be done at home now. So, that’s why we invested in it, and this is genuinely something thatwe are enjoying a lotand is recovering money for us. It’s a little expensive. It cost us ₹18,500, but certainly something which you can use for more than 2-3 years, particularly if you frequentlyprint or scan or photocopy.Next, shoes.These are not normal shoes.These are worn by Djokovic.Asics is the brand,and these are my tennis shoes.This is a yearly investment because I play every day.My shoes wear out in a year. So, this investment every year,and I only buy thisbrand which is the FF3 Novak.Extremely amazing shoes.I genuinely feel a lot more athletic and in control on the court when I wear these.Of course, quite expensive. They cost ₹15,000,but certainly worth the investment.In my mind,can I invest ₹1,200 a month tobuy the best possibleshoes that I can afford?And the answer is YES.So, I will certainlymake that investment.And last big purchase, and this was a big one, was binoculars.We went to Kenya this year,and binoculars wereimportant for our tripbecause Masai Mara is a big jungle,and there are animalsat great distances. So, it may not be possiblefor you to see it through your phone.I did not take any high-end cameraor high-power lens with me because I just wanted to observe and absorb it.So, binoculars was agood investment to make. This is the Nikon Monarch M7.It has 10X magnification,and it has optical magnification. So, very, very high quality.For $496,which is almost ₹45,000.Starting from ₹100 up to ₹45,000, all my purchases of 2023 so far. Just like I said,two of these can be yours.One each from the inexpensiveand expensive lists.You have to choose them. Subscribe to the channel.Comment the inexpensive andexpensive items you want,and after 2 weeks,we will select 5 winners who will get these 2 itemsfor them.I hope this was useful,and gave you some ideasfor gifts for yourselfor your loved ones.Ankur Warikoo,signing off.