Number 1:Reciprocity.Reciprocity is a very interestingReciprocity is a very interestingpsychological phenomenonwhere if you do afavour for someone,however small it is,they are likelier torespond favourablyto your favor. Let's take some examples.Suppose you ask someone tosign up to your newsletter. So, you could then say,“If you sign up tothis newsletter,then I will give you a free eBook.” Whatever that eBook maybe.The eBook could beabout some techniques.Anything else thatyou have compiled.Any curated techniques or tips.Anything that people feel,“If I do something, then I will be granted a favour.”Let's say you are trying tosell a software to someone. So, you'll say, “Download a free eBookand get one month of free trial for the premium membership.”So, what you arebasically doing is, you are telling them that you download our book,and because you dothat favour for us,we will return that favourby giving you one monthof trial membership.Let's apply this toan interview process.Till now,whatever cold emailsI have received,there is one type of emailto which I havealways given reply to.Do you know which ones?The ones where theperson does notjust tell me whatthey can do for me.They actually do it.So, they'll say,“Your thumbnails onYouTube are not so good.Here are someredesigned thumbnails.”“Your carousels onInstagram are not so good.Here are some carousels.”“Your YouTube shorts orInstagram reels are boring.Here is a new editing phenomenon, or a new editing approach.”They basicallydo a favour,and there is no way that I will feel like,“No.They have done a favour for mebut there is no needfor me to return it.” I will be morally obliged to return,and reciprocityensures that this sales technique is absolutely kickass.In fact,while making this video, I got an idea.I will tell you all thepsychological hacksto sell anything.Your job isto actually in thecomment section,respond that how canthese psychological hacks be used in an interview process.Becausethe reality is thatin an interview,we are selling ourselves, our personality, our skills, our experience. So, it is selling of some form.So, if this can be used inany other form of selling,then it can be usedin an interview 100%.But I want to learnfrom all of you.So, through your experience,whether it's work,or you think it's a good idea,write in the comment section,“This psychological hack, Ankur, which you shared,the interview form of it can be this.”And then I willcompile all of that, actually acknowledge all of you,and create one video which is specifically abouthow can sales hacks be usedto accomplish an interview.Got it?We will contributein a collaborative approach,and through you,I'll create my new video.I am excited about it.Number 2: Commitment and Consistency.Its explanation is,if you make someonecommit to something, they are likelier to stick to that commitmentand move forward. Here is an example.Suppose you are trying toteach someone something,or you are trying to get themstarted on their fitness goals,or you are trying toteach them a new language, or in my time management course, I tell people,“You have to measureyour time every hour.”How do you get them to do it?You would say,"Sign up for the X-day challenge.30-day challenge,10-day challenge, and what not,and move forwardtowards your goals.”That's what I do.In my time management course,I say,“Sign up to this for 10 daysand your life will change.”And people then commit to it.If they startand they completethat 10-day exercise, they feel that differenceand they move forwardin their goals. If a gym trainer tells you,“30 days.”“For 30 days,you have to hit the gym daily.”And you sign up for that,you will move forwardin your fitness goals.So, make people commitbecause that is thebest way for them to move forward.How canthis be usedin an interview situation?Think about it.Number 3: Social Proof.It is very obviousIt is very obviousbut very powerful.Basically, tell thatyou are not alone who is making this decision.There are lot of people whohave made the same decision and they have benefited from it.So, the explanation is that people will follow theactions of majority.Something which a lotof people have done,we would want to do the same. So, what's an example?Again, in my timemanagement course,I say, “The time management coursehas been taken by2,75,000 students.” When you hear that big number,you think, “Am I stupid enoughto not be in those2,75,000 people?I should also consider.”And that is whatmoves them forward. If at any place,you see something like,“10,000 people havealready bought this.”“4,000 people arechecking it out.”Or when you go onZomato or Swiggy, it says, “X orders in the last 24 hours.”,right?We are influenced by it. Why does it happen?Because we feel like,“This place must be goodbecause 4,000 peoplehave ordered fromthis restaurant inthe last 24 hours.”So, we sell into it,and that is sucha brilliant wayfor you to make a sale.The social proofpsychological hack,how can it be used in an interview? I have a lot of examples.You should also sharein the comment section.We will gather all these comments and make a new video. I will mention the comment owner who shared that comment so that collaboratively, we create a new video with each other.Number 4:Authority.People will follow credible and knowledgeable experts. This is an obvious thing but it is so deeply embedded that we don't even realizethat subconsciously, how we start following it. So, here is an example.If you simply write that “Our investment strategies are endorsed by leading financial advisors.”So, you’ll be like, it's done.Or in a toothpaste ad, a person shows upin a white lab coat.They are not a doctor.They have just put ona white lab coat. But what do we feel? White lab coatmeans doctor, means trusted,means medical advice,and subconsciously,we feel that this toothpastewould be good.And that is such a crazy wayfor you to create thatsense of authority.Again,it can be used in manyways in a sales environmentbut in an interview situation,the psychologicalhack of authority,how do you introduce itto sell your skills,your experience, your candidature?Tell me in the comment section.We’ll make a video together.Number 5:Liking.If people like you,they are more likelyto buy your product. It's a very simple phenomenon. The example for this is, in a mall,I don't know how many timesit may have happened to you, there are young peoplewho are giving awaypuppies for adoption. And what do they do?They put a really cute puppyor kitten in your hands,and you are like, “Aww. So cute.” What have they done?They have created this likeability psychological hack to get you to buy.So, no one is asking you to buy,but the commitmentof adopting a pet is a really big one because naturally it's a big responsibility thatyou would be engaging,and what they have done isthey have put a cute,likeable creature in your hands,and you suddenly feelemotionally attached,and you are likelier to dosomething for someoneif you like them.How is this used in sales?Often, you would see thatthere are friendly figures whom we see in advertisements.Very approachable, very nice. It looks like they are the purest.They have never doneanything wrong in life, or cute kids are used.Do you remember avery famous ad of Flipkartwhere small kidswere made to talkin adult voices to create an ad? And that worked so wellbecause a likeabilityfactor was introducedand we suddenly bought into the brand. Interestingly,this can be used inan interview context.And just like I said,in this video,I am generating ideas from all of you so thatyou provide me thecontent of my next video and we create that video together. Tell me in the comment sectionthat the likeabilitypsychological hack,how can you use itduring an interview process?Number 6: Scarcity.Number 6: Scarcity.It takes your mind to a different level.If we think that something is rare, scarce,it's going to end,then in our minds,its value increases. So, in a sale,this is the fundamental technique. In any sale, you'll always see,“Limited stocks available.” “Hurry! Stocks ending today.”“Hurry! Sale ending today.”Or sometimes, you wouldhave seen a timer on Amazon.“8 minute left to buy.”Or if you are buyingan airline ticket or a movie ticket on BookMyShow, you would have seen,“7 minutes left to buy.”So, your mind goesto different level. It gets you to convert and make a sale, because the scarcitypsychological hack has influenced you.Now, how can you use that in an interview context?It could be very risky because you are kind of projecting that you are scarce,a lot of companies are chasing you.So, in an acceptable,respectful and impactful way, how can this be used,that is your homework.You will tell me.I will select the best examples.I'll mention youand create a new videoand we will collaborativelycollaborativelymake the next video togetherabout how can youuse sales techniques to ace an interview.Number 7: Loss Aversion.Number 7: Loss Aversion. This is an extremely importantand critical psychological hack.We feel more grief after a lossthan the joy after a gain.It means our heart beats fasterwhen we are aboutto lose something,but the enjoyment that we feel, the joy of gaining something, that is often less.So, the fear of defeat or lossis way more thanthe joy of victory. Now, how is this used?A lot of people say things like,“Don't miss this.” “Never going to come back again.” “Limited time.” “Will never be back again.”Anywhere, whatever, if you buy limited edition things, why is that?Because you feel thatthey will be out of stock and the loss aversion isthat if we lose this,then we don't knowwhether it will come back or not.And that's why, seats filling fastrides on scarcityand loss aversion. If you get a discount anywhere, there can be two approaches.“You saved Rs. 200.” Or if you don't take the discount, then they'll say,“You could have saved Rs. 200.”Out of these two,what is more likely?Inflicting pain andgetting you to act. “You could have saved Rs. 200.” So, it happens often in software.They have monthlyand yearly pricing,and the yearly pricing comes with a massive discount. So, you tend to go for themonthly because thecommitment is less,but whenever you selectthe monthly, they say,“You can save 20% more if you move to yearly pricing.”And you're like,"20% can be saved.", and that loss aversion comes in. In an interview,how can we use thetechnique of loss aversion?There are extremelyinteresting examples of this but I want you to share them so thatwe can use that in the next video.Number 8: Anchoring.Number 8: Anchoring.This is the most importanttechnique of pricing.Remember the last time youwent to a movie theatre,and you wanted to buy popcorn, and you were given 3 options.Small popcorn bucketfor Rs. 80,its doublefor Rs. 100,and its triple sized popcorn for Rs. 110.And you were like, “110-rupee bucket is the bestbecause we get so much morepopcorn for just 30 rupees more.”What did they do? They anchored you.The smallest pack is not actually worth 80 rupees.It could have easilycosted 10 rupees,but because they priced it so high,you felt thatthe highest price of 110 rupees,  it now looks attractive,looks cheap. And that got you to convertto the highest pricedpopcorn bucket.This is called anchoring.In an interview,or in salary negotiation, it can be used a lot where the company would tell you,“For this role, the usual average CTCis ₹4 lakhs per annum.”Now, in reality, even if it was ₹6 lakhs per annum,the 4-lakh number isnow set in your mind.You have been anchored.So, you will keeprevolving around 4 lakhs, and you will be like,“I could ask for ₹4.5 lakhs.There is no way theywould go above ₹5 lakhs.” What did they do?They anchored you to that 4 lakhs, and 6 lakhs,which could have beenyour market salary,is now out of the window,and they sold you at that 4 lakhs,or round about 4 lakhs.But you could also havea way to overcome this. So, share it with methat how do you use theanchoring psychological hackto your advantage during an interview process. I'll pick the best one.We will incorporate it in a videoand that will be in the next videowhen I come up with it soon.Number 9:One of my favourites.It's called The Decoy Effect, And decoy effect is when people have 2 options, and they are unable to decide,then by introducinga third option, you can make that decision easier.Again, if you had 2 choices for popcorn,small bucket for Rs. 80,large bucket for Rs. 110,you’ll be like, “What should I buy?The Rs. 80 bucketbecause it is small. It might not be enough.Or maybe the big one becauseit's just 30 rupees extra.” But instantly,if the idea of a middlepopcorn bucket was given at Rs. 100,it makes the decision super clear.Whether it's the decision of Rs. 80or Rs. 110.So, the decoy effectis getting you to convert.They say,“You will have to buy the popcorn,whether it's for 80 rupees or 110 rupees.”But the moment we introducedthe 100-rupee pack,you instantly becamedecisive about which optionwould be better for you.This is what people use a lot.So, whenever you see, in car models, there are 3 models.There will never be 2 models.There will NEVER be 2 models.There will always be 3or more than 3 options.Whenever you are buying a software,you always have 3 options.One would be a basic plan,then a premium plan,and then the platinum planor something like that. If you buy a phone nowadays,then even there, 128 GB, 256 GB, 512 GB,and their pricingwould be extremely close.So, it will use both the decoy effectand the anchoring effectto get you to convert which is howthis sales trick works.How can you use thisin an interview?There are extremelyinteresting examplesof how you use the decoy effectto make the companybuy into you.Number 10:The Baader Meinhof phenomenon.Also called the frequency illusion. Suppose you are buying a car,and let's say you decideto buy a red Swift.The day you decideto buy a red Swift, then from the next day,you will start seeing redSwift cars on the road.Every other carwould be a red Swift.This is called thefrequency illusion.The moment somethingis stuck in our minds,we start seeing it more than usual.I am a victim of this,where my ads are seen bythe world all the timebecause I am on every platform,because I make my own ads. So, people feel that the ads that are actually there,they see way more ads than thatbecause they fall for the frequency illusion.That is something that Ihave to fixbecause it certainly doesn'twork in my favor.But this frequency illusioncould also work for you.So, in any way, if we putour thought in your mind,then you would see us everywhere,and you will suddenly believethat Maruti Swift in red colouris a really good choice because everyone is buying it.And that increasesyour probability of conversion.In an interview process, how can you use it?How can you use thefrequency illusion,which would be a veryinteresting case study if you are able to think about it.Share that in the comment sectionand in this entire video,the 10 psychological hacksthat I shared with you to make you a sales ninja,in an interview process,in order to sell yourown candidate profile,how would you use them? I want to know from you.We will gather allthe top commentsand make a video of them.Your names would be mentionedand this will be thefirst example of us collaborativelybuilding a video together.I am excited about it and I hope you are as well. This video’s sales techniques,please use them in your daily life, and be awareso that you don't endup buying somethingthat a company is trying to sellyou by using these techniques when you don't want to buy it.That's the smart wayof thinking about it. Ankur Warikoo,signing off.