Alright, video rolling, audio rolling, let’s get started.Why did I make 6-pack abs at theage of 33 and how did that change my life?Let’s get to know in this video.I know you all must be thinking thatRanveer used to do this many years back.You are taking about physical fitness, biceps,6-pack abs at the age of 40, you areat a certain age, mind your age and talkabout the topics suitable to your age.But this story is personal and a very deeplyemotional story for me, and I wantedto share it with you because I learnt a lotfrom this story, this experience taughtme so much, and I wanted to share it withall of you. So, I will take you to 2012.I was 32 years old in 2012 and I used to looklike this at that time. I weighed 90kgs,I never woke up early in the morning,I was satisfied in my life with all the junkfood like chole bhature, samosa, chaat-papdiand maggi. I had never worked out in my life,I stayed away from gym, very bad eatingand sleeping habits, I had basically abusedmy body. And whenever you abuse your body,then in the beginning you are unawareof it because when you are in your 20s,your hormones are so active that somehow,we keep moving ahead, but as you keep aging,it starts hitting you. So, I remember one day,out of the blue I said, I will exercise from today,which happens with all of us once or twice a year.I went to the park and start exercising,moved my legs here and there, I was 90 kgsand it was not going to work on me.But I think in my excitement, I did somethingbecause of which I had pain in my hip boneafter 3-4 days. Initially it was a normal pain,so I didn’t bother much, took some medicineand I was fine. But slowly and graduallywithin 2 weeks, that pain was so muchthat I couldn’t even walk. I was limpingand whenever I walked, I had intense pain,I couldn’t sleep at nights so I usedhot water bottle and whatnot.But it was very clear that something isconsiderably wrong and we had to goto the doctor. So, we went to the doctor,doctor prescribed us some tests likefor slip disc, spine, back etc. We did allthat but there nothing was detected.And after that doctor suggested us toget a hip MRI done. So, I got that doneand then we came to know that I had anillness called Avascular Necrosis, AVN.Don’t search AVN on internet becausethe first result would be Adult Video Network,which you do not want to watch publicly at least.So, AVN or avascular necrosis is a weird disease.One out of 10 lakh people have itand it happens because of 3 reasons.One, that you smoke excessively.Second, that you drink excessively.Or third, you have taken a lot of steroids.All these 3 things did not apply to mebecause neither do I drink nor smokeand never taken any steroids.So, a fourth condition is that it hasn’tbeen diagnosed that why did it happen,and that is where I lied, which meantdoctors did not know why did I haveavascular necrosis. But what happensin this disease? In this disease, my right hip bonestopped receiving blood, because of whichit started decaying. And since yourwhole-body weight is on your hip bone,so its not able to bear the weight anymoreand because of that you aren’t able to walk.So, I distinctly remember the day whenthe doctor got to know that I haveavascular necrosis or AVN, he wrote onthe prescription in big and bold that‘STOP WALKING’.You have to stop walking immediately,if you have to walk then use crutches,because we don’t know how much isyour hip bone damaged, and God forbid,if the damage would be too muchthen it needs to be stopped and fixed.There are 2 ways to fix it. One is to keeptaking medicines and hope you recover.Why? Because you do not the reasonbehind it. Or second is operation.The name of the operation iscore decompression. It’s quiet aninteresting operation, in which a verysmall portion of our calf bone is taken,around 1 inch or about 2 capsules,its grinded, then 2 holes are drilled inthe hip bone, and those holes are filledwith this powder. And over a periodof 1-2 years, hip bone is healed,and that is how you save yourselffrom the decay of the hip bone.I don’t know what I was thinking butI was very sure that I wanted to getoperated because I didn’t want tohave medicines and then if it fails thenget hip replacement done. I was like,‘let’s get the operation done and move on,it will impact for 1-2 years, I will bear it,that’s perfectly fine’. It hit hard at thattime, because it meant that after operation,I will be on bedrest for 1-2 months,I won’t be able to walk and then for5-6 months I will have to walk using crutches.And I was a very active person andat that time I was jolted, but then I thought,let’s do what needs to be done and move on.We did the operation, took bedrest for2 months, then walk with crutches for3-4 months, and I remember in January 2013,I took a flight while I was on crutchesbut it was getting better by the day.And when on flight, I do a lot of thinkingabout myself, about life, you get so much time,and since there is no phone, there isno distraction. I was thinking to myselfthat life had denied me my ability to walk,so what can I say back to life throughwhich life would realize that this chapter ofmy life is finished. I said life many times!But basically, I wanted to say somethingwhich told life that this chapter of lifeis over, now let’s move on. And I in thatmoment of craziness said that if life hasdenied me my ability to walk, then I willreply back by running, I will run.So, in October 2013, Airtel Delhi halfmarathon was going to happen,which is a run for 21kms., and I said tomyself that I will prepare for thishalf marathon. I didn’t tell my doctorabout this because I knew he would say,‘You have lost your mind, you justgot operated for AVN, I can’t allowyou to run’. But I had the feelingthat I am ready. I weighed morethan 90kgs at that time because I didno physical exercise for many months,I had never woken up early in life,I was very lethargic and I hated running,in fact even today I hate running.I don’t understand, why do people run?How will running help? You can walk!You can exercise! How will running help?!Anyway, so I hated running, and thismarathon meant that I will have totrain myself, not just training to runthe marathon, but training to lose weight,training to get fit, training to learnhow to run and then of course learnhow to run the marathon. So, I started that,joined a gym, first month was intense pain,because there was the pain from operation,never ran in my life, ran with a weightof 90kgs., it was brutal, I could barelyrun for 100-200 meters, and pantedas if I am underwater and unable tobreathe. Slowly and gradually those100 meters became 500 meters,those 500 meters became 1 km,and I remember that before that marathon,I had never for 21kms at a stretch.Even in my practice the maximumthat I had run was 14 kms, but I wasvery confident that on that day I wouldbe able to for 21kms and completethe marathon. If you have everparticipated in a marathon oryou know of it, then you know that youget 3 hours to complete this marathon.21 kms in 3 hours which means7 kms per hour. 7 kms per hour isbrisk-walking, which means if youwalk fast, not even run then you cancomplete this marathon. So, on that day,I started running, it was an emotionalmoment because I promised myselfthat I will complete this marathon,I will tell life that I gone through thischapter and this chapter is over for me,I ran, took a lot of photographs whichyou can see on the screen. When thehalf-point at 14kms came, it was avery emotional moment, then I knewthat I will be able to complete it becauseI had already run for 14kms, and in2 hours 40 minutes I completed 21 kms.But I didn’t feel that happy, in fact,I felt like I cheated, and I felt this waybecause I was thinking that I never ranfor 21kms till date. Today I ran for21kms because you get 3 hours to do it,so run for a while, then walk for some time,so it almost felt like the training I wasdoing for the last 4-5 months, if I wouldn’thave done that and just randomlyone day reached there weighing 90 kgs,with chips packet and coke can,then also I would have completedthese 21kms in 3 hours.And that is when I asked myself thisquestion, that this is cheating in a way,so is there anything that I can do whereI can’t cheat. Is there something forwhich I can commit, and I can’t justone day show up and it will be done?I will actually have to do somethingevery single day. Every day with fulldedication, I will have to commitsomething, and then only finallyone day I will be able to achieve it.And that is when at the age of 33,I decided I am going to get 6-pack abs.I gave myself 5 months, there wasno basis for this duration.Because of the training and the walking,I now weighed 86kgs, but 6-pack absis a totally different game becausefor that you have to burn all your fat.At that time, my body fat ratio,which means how much fat is part ofyour body weight, and it was around 26%.To get 6-pack abs, your body fat ratioshould be less than 10%, so it was alot of work that I had to do.My colleague from my office at that time,Ajay Singh, he was quite fit and tookcare of his body, and he offered tohelp me. so, Ajay made a full dietplan for me, a full exercise regime,and he said that you start following this.The biggest change was here,because in the first month I was suffering.I had to change my diet altogether,it had to become a protein-rich diet,no sugar, no fat food, all the thingsthat I liked even till today, I could noteat any of those. I ate salads, dal-roti,I am a vegetarian, so I could not eveneat chicken to increase my proteinintake, so I had to eat many kinds ofdal, lot of paneer, lot of nuts, intenseworkout, no cardio, only weight training,so I used to lift weights, my body achedall over, it was almost perpetuallyin pain all the time, and after one monthI was almost ready to give up,and at that point Ajay Singh shared avideo with me. I want to show thatvideo to all of you in this video,it’s a 2-minute video, but you cansee it quickly, and in that video,there was a point which basicallysaid that ‘it is not the person withthe most talent or capability that wins,but the one with the most perseverancethat wins’. It’s not necessary that theperson with the most capability orintelligence would win, but that personwho keep persevering wins, perseverance,and that uplifted me. I used to get adifferent kind of energy after watchingthis video and every day while going tooffice I used to watch this video,and it just changed the equation for me.I struggled a lot, worked really hard,change my whole diet, woke upearly morning before going to work,had good diet, slept on time, woke upon time, everything happened,and slowly and steadily, I got to thebody fat percentage, and in the lasttwo weeks, when I wanted to reallystretch myself, at that point the flabon your stomach towards a certainbody fat, that is not fat but water,and to squeeze out that water youhave to take out all the things fromyour body which absorb water,and the main thing which absorbswater in your body is salt, so for thelast 2 weeks, I actually stopped all salts,which is not recommended by the way,and I would not encourage you to do that,because once you start squeezing outwater from your body, then all the machinery,most importantly your stool,when you go to toilet in the morning,it starts becoming hard, you startgetting constipated, because without water,your stool is not as fluid as it should be.But I wanted to get to that last mileand I did that, and I was so happywith myself, so proud of thisachievement that I wanted to capture that,and actually went for a photoshootwhich is very unnatural for me,but I did that and you can see it on screen.My photoshoot which shows my6-pack abs, shows all the work thatI had done. But the most importantthing that I realized from this experienceis what I wanted to share with you,is that after that I have remainedcommitted to being fit all my life.I feel that at the age of 33, I got a new life.A life, where I had abused my bodyfor last 33 years, I never respected it,eat whatever you want, sleep wheneveryou want, wake up whenever you want,bad habits, everything that physicallyand emotionally and mentally damagedmy body, my mind. But when I startedworking out, the biggest thing I realizedwas that nobody can gift you a fit body,you cannot buy a fit body, you cannothave a fit body overnight, if you arefit then it’s only because you haveworked towards it, you cannotgive anybody any credit for it,nobody can take away that creditfrom you, this is the most preciousgift you can give yourself because ifyou are fit, if you eat right, if you sleepat the right time, wake up at theright time, take care of your bodyand mind, then that sets you up for life.You can do everything that you canand you want to do, you have anenergy to do everything which isunprecedented, unexplained, and this isthe biggest biggest biggest thing thatyou can do for yourself. It is very difficult,but once you get into the habit,then it is even more difficult to breakthat habit. So, if in any way, don’twait for the 1st of January, don’t waitfor a new year resolution, don’t waitfor some period, some day,and unfortunately don’t wait for abad accident, like it happened with me,for you to realize how important that is.The more you can bring your life ona right track by being fit, by committingyourself to a physically fit, a mentally fit,an emotionally fit lifestyle, that will bebest thing you can do for yourself.All the diet plans that I used,my exercise plan, I have shared all of themin the description. Please use it as much asyou can, share it wherever you want.My hope through this video is to helpyou see how I transformed my life andgot a new life which has completelychanged everything for me andhow you can get that too.Ankur Warikoo, signing off!