What is mindfulness? Mindfulness meansyour brain ispresent 100% in this moment.If you're watching this video,then your mind isnot distracted. If you are talking to someone,then you are 100% inthat conversation. Productivity meansthe effectivenessof your efforts. How goodis the effectof your practice or not?Often, these 2 concepts are adopted in lifein different ways.Productivity and mindfulness are considered completelyopposite ends ofthe spectrum but I believe thattheir intersection unlocks something. Something very special thatin this videowe’ll learn about.Firstly,let’s try tounderstand mindfulness. Mindfulness is whenyou talk to someoneor you are focusedin some work,you start thinking something. A thought comes in your mind. Something to do.A to-do list starts forming. “I forgot that.”“I had to do that.” “I had to write that for her.” “I had to send that to him.”And you get distracted from the moment.Or if a conversation is going on and you pick up your phone, you force the distraction into that conversation.Mindfulnessensures that in any moment,in any moment,you are 100% present.It means if you are lookingme straight in the eyes, then you are onlylistening to me.A great example of that is from The Mahabharata.Do you remember in Mahabharata,there is a moment whenDronacharya is teachingall the Pandavas the use of bow and arrow.And one by one, hetells the Pandavas that, “On that tree is a sparrow.And the eye of the sparrow iswhat you must shootwith the arrow.”And then Yudhisthira comesand Dronacharya asks him, “Yudhisthira, what do you see?” And Yudhisthira says, “Guruji,I can see the sparrow, the leaves, the trees, the clouds.”“Ok. Well Done.”"Next."Then he asks Bhima, “What do you see?”He gives a similar answer.Then,finally he comes to Arjuna. And Dronacharya asks Arjuna, “Arjuna, what do you see?” And Arjuna says,“Guruji, I see just one thing.The sparrow’s eye.”That is not focus. It’s also mindfulness that in the moment,whatever thing needs your focus the most, you focus on that one thing. Everything elsebecomes a distraction.And even if youget distracted,the next thingabout mindfulness is you’re instantly awarethat you are distracted.The moment youstart getting lostin your thoughts, you become awarethat your thoughtshave wandered. I am not in this moment.And then you bringyourself back into that moment. How can mindfulnessbe brought into our lives?One of the most effectiveways of doing that is meditation.Since the last 7 years,I have been meditating.The last 1500 days,somewhere around 1500 days.Let me just check the number. In the last 1500 days, approximately,I have not wasteda single daywhen it comes to my meditation.Wake up every morning. For 30 minutes,meditatewith eyes closed.Focusing only on your thoughts, focusing on your breathand being aware that you are distracted.Recognizing that thoughtand coming back to themoment and your breath.That is a great wayto become mindful.Journalling is a greatway to become mindful.Mindfulness does not mean that you can control your emotions.Mindfulness doesn’t mean thatyou will never be distracted. No.It means thatwhenever you are distracted, you are aware of that moment.You allow thatdistraction to happen,recognize it and come back to the present. Journaling helps in this.When you’re writing, you slow downyour thoughtsbecause writing is a slow activity.Speaking is easy.Listening is easy.Seeing is easy.Smelling is easy. Feeling is easy.But writing takes time.So, whatever millions ofthoughts you have in your mind,while writing,you tell you mind that, “Friend, slow down.Millions of thoughtsat the same timecan’t be written.So, I have to write themost important thing.”And that helps mindpace down and be awareof what you are thinking,and out of them,which one is themost importantto write? Yoga of courseis a great way to be mindful because it not onlyimproves your physicaland mental well-being, it also allows you to breathe and breathe well, to recognizethat in that moment,what is the most importantwork you are doing? And again, to be mindful of that present moment.And the moment you startbeing mindful in your life,you begin to enjoy lifein a very different manner.Imagine you are eating foodand not watchinganything while eating, not reading anything, not listening to anything.Every single bite,you feel it.You can feel the rajma-chawal or the burgeror that whatever is itthat you are eating.And that becomesthe precious moment.You are breathingand you are feelingevery single breath.When I meditate,often it happens thatit starts itchingand instead of trying to scratch it instantly,I focus my attention on it. And it’s amazing that whenever I do it,very, very slowly, that itch goes away. It’s almost as if I am invisibly scratching my itch while not doing it physically.Productivity on the other hand sounds likebecoming a timemanagement ninja.Everything will bedone super fast.Everything in the daywill be accomplished.And it feels so different from mindfulness, right? Mindfulness feels like you are working slowly.You are feeling everything. And productivity is like, “I’ll do this.” “I’ll do that.” “I’ll do this.” “I’ll do that.” It's a very different art.But just like I said,their intersection canbe very interesting.Productivity is not abouthow much work canyou do in a day? Productivity isthe ease with whichyou accomplish that task. The regularity andpredictability ofaccomplishing that task. And along withaccomplishing that task,how you don't feel burnt out?You don’t geta jaded behavior where you feel, “I feel so tired today.I don’t want anotherday like this in my life.”That’s not being productive.Productive is that you wake up every day.Whatever you have to do,you’ll do it.You do it withabsolute dedication.And it will not feel like workbecause you would have organized your day and your mental spacein such a way that you are being effective.Let's take an example. Time blocking. What is time blocking?In a day, in your calendar,if you block timeto do an activity.You do not knowwhether that activitywill be done in 15 minutes or in 2 hoursor somewhere in between.But what do you say is, “For 3 hours a day, for example,I am going to do X.It could be workingon a presentation. It could be studying.Could be reading.Could be thinking.Could be writing.Could be your passionor could be your work or anything else.And those 3 hours are devoted to just that task. You are not going from task to task to task.You are not makinghalf-hour schedules.You have blockeda big portion of your time to focus on something that allows youto be precise and effective.Thishelps. Pomodoro technique is another examplewhere you work in30-minute slots.You focus on just one task. But after every 25 minutes, you take a 5-minute break. It is proven to help your mind relaxbecause our mind,after 30 minutes,feels really faded or tired.So, if you give it that 5-minute break,you need just 5 minutes,your mind comes back.25 minutes of work. 5 minutes of break. 25 minutes of work.5 minutes of break.And if you complete4 pomodoros,meaning a 2-hour stretch,you can accomplish a lot more than anyone else.Keeping your workspace clean and organisedreduces the clutter.Writing everything down.So, you alwayshave a notebook.Everything is recordedin the notebookand you don't haveto remember anything.Everything must beon the calendar.Everything mustbe through email.You will not try to remember anything. You will use your brain for just doing, not for remembering. All of theseare tips around productivity.I have made a lot ofvideos on productivity. You can check them outso that you get to knowwhat are the tips and tricks I have usedto become productivein my life. But this video isabout mindfulness andproductivity’s intersection.Let's talkabout that.The first thing.When you are mindful,you are always aware of your emotions.It means if you aresad,depressed,dejected, anxious,stressedor happy or joyfulor peacefulor excited,you will be awareof that emotion.This is an outcomeof mindfulness.Now imaginehow can this awarenessmax out your productivity? Because you are awarethat at whatphase of the day, what emotions doyou often feel? When people say they are night person or a morning person.“I like workingat the night.”or “I like waking upearly in the morning.” What does that really mean?It meansthat at that point,our emotions are the most positive and I recognise that.I get to knowthat in what formdo I feel at my max? And if you combine that with being the most productive.Picking up the hardest things.The most difficult taskyou have to do in the day, you will do thatwhen you are feeling the most positive.You begin to experiencethe intersection of mindfulness and productivity. This is just one exampleof the many things that this intersection allows you to achieve.If you are mindful,you are always present in the momentand when you're presentin that moment, you do not get distracted.So, if you are usingpomodoro technique then in those 25 minutes,how do you ensure thatyou work for 25 minutes?And in the 5-minute break,you genuinely take abreak for 5 minutes. Through mindfulness, because a lot of peoplewho are not mindful,they don't know how to be in the moment?So, even in those 25 minutes,they are only workingfor 15 minutes or maybe even less than it.They feel that they haveworked for 25 minutes.No.25 minutes of work means 25 minutes of work.And that requiresyou to be mindful.But then the 5-minute break. Then again 25 minutes.Then 5, then 25, then 5.You have the intersection of mindfulnessand productivity.So, 3 thingsthat you can startfrom tomorrow in your life to be both mindfuland productive.Number 1 Start your daywith the mindfulness activity. This will set up your day. For example, I meditate. You can meditate. You can do yoga.You can do a simplebreathing exercise. But anything that gets you to be mindful.Being present in the moment.Why this helpsis because slowly,you start building a routine.You train your mind to feel a certain way the first thing in the morning.And when you do that,it sets the agendaand the mood for the rest of the day.In that period,you will also realisethat what is youremotion in that moment? Are you actually feelingtired?Or maybe you are feeling stressed about something? And when you recognise that, you know what you can do to handle it.Because recognition of a emotion is the first step towards managingthat emotion.And this day’smindfulness exercise, that will be the first thingyou do at thestart of your day,it will set you up for that.Number 2In your day,take mindful breaks.Just like I said,our brain is not built for a lot of tasks,particularly when we have to switch contexts. You are doing something.Then you switchto another task.Then you switch again.And all of this is switching a context for which our brain is not geared intuitively.So, take mindful breaks.What do mindful breaks mean? Mindful breaks meanbreaks that are not too long. Around 5 minutes.But are without any distraction.You will not use your phone.You will not listen to music.You will not talk to anyone.You won't be around anyone.You won't be watching anything.You won’t be writing anything.You won’t be reading anything.No activity at all. The best isclose your eyes and take deep breathsthrough your nose and fill up your chest,and then through your mouth,exhale deeply. And do thatas many times as you can. 5, 10, 15 times.You will feel your breath. Feel every single moment.And when you takesuch mindful breaks,the minute you get backinto your productive self,that's it.On a whole new level, your productivitystarts showing itself,starts being visible.Number 3End your day with a reflection. This is a brilliant way for youto gather everything and bring it to closure.As your day ends,before you go to sleep,you don't look at your phone. You don't read anything.You don't listen to anything. You will sit with yourself. It could be a reflection that you write out. It is preferred.It is ideal.But could also besomething that you recordon a voice note or a video,whatever you arecomfortable with.And what you are trying to do is look at the day and figure that at what points, you were distracted.Your mind was distracted.Your focus was distracted.And you will makea note of it. You don't have to fix it. You don't have to improve it.You don't have to makepromises to yourself that I won't do it again. Nothing.You just have torecognise those moments.Our mind,when it recognisesthose moments, it will automatically,because you arepracticing mindfulness, it will start telling youwhen that moment happens again, “My friend,you are getting distracted.” And thatwill make your mindfulness charter, stronger.Your mindfulness techniquewill be used toits full potential. And that will help youbecome more andmore productiveover a period of time.In conclusion,don't ever make themistake of believingthat mindfulnessslows down our life.It makes our life slow.It is needed in our old agewhen you are goingto spirituality. Your kids have grown up.You’ve lived your life.You have to use it only then. No.If you are in your 20s, I guarantee you if you practice mindfulness, youwill be way aheadof everyone else because they will continueto live their lifewith distractionbut you will have a100% attention and focus while living every moment.Productivity is somethingthat you naturally startdeveloping in your 20s.We are very eagerto accomplish. We are very eager to do things.We are very eager to learn new things.There is a lot of literature on productivity.A lot of content.A lot of videos are made.A lot of contenthas been created. But to combine the two is a superpower.So, please don't believe that mindfulness isa technique of old age thatyou have to use when yourlife start getting slower.No.It can be somethingthat can change your life forever. Anddon't treat thisin isolation.Mindfulnesswhen combined with productivity, you will have a toolthat very few people have.Through these techniques,through other principlesof mindfulness,and while using all the tipsand tricks of productivity,you can achieve the intersection of these two in a way very few people can. I am a living example of thatand I would highlyrecommend it to every single one of you watching this video.I hope this was useful.Ankur Warikoo.Signing off.