Number 1 In life, how to set your goals?For setting your goals,a very specific andeffective way is SMART goal setting.S-M-A-R-T SpecificMeasurableAchievableRelevant Time-boundTime-bound has asmall question mark,according to me,butlet’s try to understand them. SpecificGoal must be specific.Not like, “I want to be rich.” How do you define rich?What is it?Your and Mukesh Ambani’sdefinition of rich are worlds apart.So, you have to be specific about what do you wantto be your definition of rich?Number 2Number 2MeasurableMeasurable means can we measure it or not? If someone says,“My goal is to be happy.”How do you measure happiness?Translate it into something that you can measure.Unless and untilyou don’t do that,your goalwill just be a dream.ThirdAchievableIs this goal achievableby you or not?I will get up one day and say, “I will be life’s, not life’s,the world’s fastest runner.This is my goal for this year.” And Usain Bolt will be like, “Yeah, sure.I was at it for 25 yearsand you beat mejust like that.”It’s not achievable.So, set a goalthat can be achieved.A lot of people, in their 20s, set unachievable goals.Not because theycan’t achieve it but because 20sis not the time toachieve those goals.Own house by 25.Expensive car by 24.By 20 or by 30.By 30, I must retireand so on. It may be possible but the probability of that is so low.Why would you want toset that goal? R – Relevant. Is this goalrelevant in your life?A random goal just because of FOMO in your life.Adopting a goal becauseof someone else.It must not happen.And fifth. Time-bound.This smart goal technique saysthat a goal has an expiry date.If you achieve thegoal by a specific timethen you geta type of passion and enthusiasm.With full dedication,you pursue that goal.My slightly differentperspective isif we forciblytime-bound a goal butwe didn’t make it specific,didn’t make it measurable, didn’t make it achievable, didn’t make it relevant then this timeis fantasy without action. Just like I said,“My own house by 25.”It has no meaning.But we feel thatif we don’t get it by 25,then we have failed this goalwhen it could verywell have been thatyou could have achievedit easily by 30.So, you have to adopt a process such as thissmart process to set your goals.Now, to make thisSMART goal settingeven smarter,two more things.S-M-A-R-TThat you already know.E-RE means Evaluated.R means Reviewed.Which means this goal will notbe achieved the very next day. It’ll be a journey. It’ll be a process.It’ll take time.In that entire journey,how will you evaluatethis entire goal?Maybe some things of thisgoal need to be changed?Maybe the goalneeds to be changed?And how will youreview this goal?Are you headed inthe right direction?Are you going atthe right pace?Are you acquiring theright capabilities?Is this goal still achievabledoing what you aretrying to do or are doing itself?This becomes a SMARTER goalThis becomes a SMARTER goaland this is an exerciseto setting our goals in the first place.Now, it has an interestingand important thing which I personally feelvery strongly aboutand it’s funny we are talkingabout it today becauseIn the morning today,Vidur made a big mistake, Vidur is our 11-year-old son, in setting his goal.So, today was hisannual day function.And when it ends, we set a goalfor the next year.And when he was tryingto set the goal,he did the classic mistakewhich lots of people make, especially young people. They set a goalon something called outputs.It means“Iwant money.” “Iwant a car.” “Iwant a job.” “Iwant a house.” “Iwant a relationship.” All these are outputs.And the biggestproblem of outputs isthey are not always in our control.If you set a goal, “In the next 3 months,I want to lose 15 kgs.”That’s an output. It may happen.May not happen.And it may not alwaysbe in your control.But if you adopta different approachto making the same goal called ‘The Input Wayof the Goal’which is,“I don’t want to lose 15 kgs.My goal is to go the gym every day.”That’s a goal whichis very specific. It’s measurable.I know I can achieve it.It’s very relevant.And it is time-bound.Can you see the powerof this smart goal?And to become smarter,evaluate it. I will make sure thatmy gym trainer’sand my timing are doing that, are overlapping. Andhe or she will keep giving me feedback,which is the reviewed part,that how am I performingboth on dietand on the exercise?This goal can be achieved.Now, in this,you could lose 15 kgs.You could lose 20 kgs. You could do it in 3 months. You could do it in 3 weeks.All of that becomesoutside of yourcontrol and yet, you are hitting the goal every single day. This is the smarter way of goal setting.Now that we aretalking about goals, a lot of peoplewant to go abroadto study and that becomes their goal.And this leads tomassive job opportunities,super amazing exposure.I went to the US myself andwhen I got there,my mind explodedfor the first time. I got to learn so muchdespite the fact that I grew up in the capital city of Indiaand so on.But that exposure wasat a different levelaltogether.If you want to go to UK this yearthen the last datefor admissions in UK is in this monthand you don’t want to misson that opportunitybecause studying abroadcan genuinely changeyour life.This video is sponsoredby Leverage Eduwho are one of India’stop study abroadconsulting firmsand through them, thousands of students, every year, go to UK, Canada, Australia, US and many more countries, and they can help you go through the entire process.Which colleges youshould apply for?Which courses to apply for?Which scholarshipsto apply for? What is the fee structure?How to get a loanfor it and all? Visa process,accommodation andeverything in between is something that Leverage Eduand their teamcan help you with.Their founder,Akshay Chaturvedi is from ISB.I know him.I am also an investorin their company.So, my view is quite biasedbut take it forwhat it is worth. Leverage Edu, I genuinely believe is one of the finer, if not the fineststudy abroad consulting firms in the country.Pinned comment anddescription have the link through whichyou can apply to the UK admissionsfor this year. Second.The mirror exercise.Maybe the most difficultbut the mostimportant exercise.Let’s say you aredealing with a problem.A problem thatyou are dealing withbut you also want to solve it.It could be arelationship problem.Could be a work problem.Could be with your parents.Could be with your parents,with your siblingsor with anyone else. With your manager or even with yourself.I believe,and this is my view, that all of us know what we want to do.We are just scared of actually doing it.And mirror exerciseputs a mirror in front of us.Here’s how you do it.You will sit in a quiet place. No phone.No music.No notepad.No person.?” Ideally, no noise.Day or night doesn’t matter. Whenever it is. It could be like as bright as right now.You will close your eyes.You could sit on the chair or on the floor.You could sit withyour legs crossed.Just like we sitnormally on a chair,you could sit like that too.You shouldn’t lie down because it could be possibleyou might fell asleep.And what you do is you close your eyes.When you close your eyes.You focus on theproblem that youare trying to solve.Let’s pick an example that you are notenjoying your job.And you ask yourself the first question.“Whyam I notenjoying my work?”Whenever you ask any question, you will not lie to yourself. This is the promise.This is the only waythis mirror exercise will work. If you lie to yourself, then you know thatyou are lying to yourself.You can lie to the whole worldbut not to yourself.So, you must notlie to yourself.“Why am I notenjoying my work?”This will be your first “Why?”You’ll get an answer. You might not like the answerbut that answer isimportant for you.After listening to the answer, you will ask your second question.“Whyis that happening?”Let’s say the answer is,“I don’t like my boss.” “Why do I not likemy boss?” That’ll have an answer. A true answerbecause you don’t wantto lie to yourself.And when that answer comes, you’ll ask your third question. “Why does that happen?” So,“Why do I not like my boss?”“Becausehe or she oftenscolds me in public.”“Why do theyscold me in public?” That’ll have a real answer. Let’s say the answer is, “Because I oftenend up making mistakes in my work.” And thatwill then lead to thefourth question.“Why do I end upmaking mistakesin my work?”And then, you’ll get an answer. “Beacsue I do not fullyunderstand what is required of me?” “I don’t actuallyknow how do this work properly?”or“I don’t enjoy doing this work.”Then the fifthand the last question. “Why do I notenjoy this?”or “Why do I not know how to do this?”And you’ll get an answer. When you get the fifth answer,if you’ve really donethis exercise well.This exercise of mirror. The Mirror Exercise. You will have a breakthrough. You will get to know somethingabout yourself,about your environment,about your condition, about your realitythat you have beentrying to suppress all this while.Again,this exercise is sodifficult becausethe answer you’llultimately get,most likely you won’tlike that answer.But that answer isimportant for youbecause that answer is the truth. It is your truth.And until and unlessyou don’t face that truth,you will neverbe able to change it,challenge it, fix it.This mirror exerciseis something that I would highly,highly recommend for you to do whenever you are facing any problem. Close your eyes.Be in that place.And ask yourself 5 Whys to get to a truththat might change your life.Number 3Within 30 days, how to learn a new thing. How do you developthe art of learning? The first 10 days,act like a student. Learn like a student.When we were inschool and college,how did we study as a student?We would get a curriculum.That curriculum,we would memorize it,study it,enjoy it,whatever it wasdepending on whether weliked the subject or not. But we used to go through aformal curriculum.So, the first 10 days,you’ll do exactly that.There are YouTube videos. There are many courses.There are many avenues.There are many notes. There are many books. There are many forums.There are many communities. Every day, just one hour,you would devote it to learning aboutwhatever is itthat you want to learn.Let’s say you want to learn cooking.And for the first 10 days,you willwatch videos, read books, join forums, become part of communities. Every day, one hour,just about cooking. Specifically whatever it is.Could be Italian cooking.Could be Indian cooking.Could be Mexican.Whatever you want to learn.You’ll get into it andyou will learnlike a student.You will not practice, not implement. You’ll just take notes.A lot of notesso that you actlike a student. The second 10-day routine.In that,you’ll actually go into the practicals of the course.So, the science studentsknow that what are practicalsand what is theory?For those who may not know. We will firstly take theory, I said ‘we’ quiet confidentlyBut I was also a science student.That's why, I said ‘we’. Never mind.Firstly, we wouldstudy the theory.Foundational,so that we’d knowwhat we had to do.And then in the lab,we would do the practical.So, mixing chemicalsin chemistry or dissecting rats in biology. I didn’t dissect but generally.So, wewill do the same practicals.So, you’ll practicelike a student forthe next 10 days but with yourself.So, you’ll be in your own lab.You know that youwill make mistakes.You know thatabsolutely patheticresult would come out.You know thatyou’ll get to learn from it.You know that you’ll forget some things.So, you’ll have to goback to your notes.But the next 10 days, you will,for example,if you are learning cooking,then we will practice cooking. So, whatever. If you were learning Italian or Spanish or Mexican,we’ll try to cook it in your kitchen.We will experiment with things.We’ll see how it is.We’ll see how it tastes.Are we able tocook it properly?Are the ingredients correct? You’ll go back to the video. You’ll refer notes and so on.And that way,we’ll practice.And the last 10 days,we will implementagain as a student. Firstly, we learnt.Then, we practiced. Now, in the third phase, we will implement.What will we implement?We will basicallystart doing itpublicly.So, let’s take the cooking example.Suppose you arelearning cooking, then wewould start cooking for others. Slowly,because we don’twant to kill them. Butthe idea is youwill give the first levelof public appearance. If you are creating content, then the first 10 days,you were learning howto create content?Then the next 10 days,you were practicing bycreating a video and so on.And then, the next 10 days,you will publiclyshare your content.And the biggest thing that you want from that is feedback. We want feedback.So, with open arms, with an open heart,keeping your ears open, keeping your eyes open, keeping your mouth shut,we will ask for feedback.Whatever people say,whether they curse usor they praise us,we will listen to it.It’s not necessary thatwe accept everything but it is important to listenbecause that will then define how you change the process.When this 30-day process ends,another 30-day process starts. And that next 30 dayswill follow the same pattern.The first phase, learn like a studentbut now,basis the feedbackthat you got. Second,practice like a studentso that in your mind, in your world,with yourself,you can learn all that.And then third, implement like a student where youpublicly share with people.Do this until you get that mastery. This scientific factAnd when you do this,remember one thingwhich will blowyour mind away.Research has esblished that,proven thatin any new field,top 1%Science and researchhave proven that in any new field,to end up in the top 10%,it takes just20 hours.I’ll say this once more. In any field,to come in the top 10%,it takes just20 hours of commitment.Meaning if you arelearning a new language. I talked about cooking.Any other hobby. Any new subject.Coding.Making music.Musical instruments.Anything. If you put in20 hours with full dedication, you’ll be in the top 10% ofeverybody who isdoing that already. To come in the top 1%,it’s a totally different game. But to get to 10%,just 20 hours.And I am giving you30 hours so that youare already in the top 10%of anything that you wish to learn.Number 4 The Change Challenge of Breaking Bad Habits.Habitsare loved by allas long as they are good. But our problem is that our bad habits pull us back.How to break that? Atomic Habits,which is a really beautiful book by James Clear. If you can read it,please read it.Pinned comment anddescription have its link.That showed a really nice,simple, powerful way of breaking bad habits. How to break bad habits?It’s a 4-step process. Step 1:Making itActually,let’s take a habit. For example, youare a social media addict.Your brainis consumed by social media. Your phone is always on.You keep swiping upor keep swiping left or right. Whether it is Snapchat,whether it is Telegram,whether it is Instagram,whether it is YouTube, whether it is any other world, you are addicted to it.And you want tobreak out of this bad habit.Step number 1. Make it invisible.Whatever is the rootof the bad habit,try to remove it from your life. In this example,the surest wayof doing that isif you can delete those apps,then please do it.Butthat is like a very brutal way.It's like you kill a person.We all want to liveour lives sometimes.It’s not like I wantto become a saint.Sometimes, I want Instagram or Telegramor go to Discord and all that.So, making it invisible meanstake all those apps, club them in a folder.Name it something random,not social media apps.And send it to the lastscreen of your phone so that you have to scroll.It must not be onthe home screen.It must not be onthe home screen.YouI’ll show you my home screen. This is my home screen.Visible?This is my home screen.As you can see,just 5 icons. First one is Phone.Emailbecause I check it frequently.Then there is Calendar.Music because I really like it. And this is the Calm app, which is my meditation app. This is my home screen.So, whenever I open my phone, I see thiswhich is a beautiful image.It’s is quite peaceful. Andthat’s it.Make it invisible.So, that’s step number 1.Step number 2:Make it unattractive.This entire habit,make it a boring habit.How do you do that?You have to change your mindset.There arethe benefits of breakingyour bad habits.You’ll have to repeatthem in your mind.So, stick them onyour board that,“If I don’t spendtime on social media,I will actually have time to do other things.”“If I don’t spendtime on social media, I will not get distracted.”“If I don’t spendtime on social media, I will not experience FOMO.”“If I don’t spendtime on social media, I will not feel like comparing my life to others.”“If I don’t spendtime on social media,then I’ll be able to makefriends in real life.”“If I don’t spendtime on social media,then X-Y-ZA-B-Cblah, blah, blah,whatever it is.” But you basically will rewire your thinking.You will not say that,“Why is socialmedia important?And why I shouldbe active on it?” No.You will speakabout the fact that, “If I break this bad habit, then in my life,due to this,what all benefits will I get?” so that every time, when youremind yourself of it,you find theexact habit to be unattractive. Like,“I don’t find this interesting at all.”“This makes me feel disgusting.”And that is whatyou need to get to as a second stage. Third:Make it difficult. That bad habit mustbe made difficult. A great way of doing thatwhen it comes to social mediasocial media addiction is put a timer on all apps. Android and iOS,both of them have thisfacility available.It is inbuilt.No need to download any appor anything.On every single app, you can put a timerdefining in a day, how much will you allow? After how much time will it end?On which days,how much will be allowed? So on and so forth.And the best thing.When that time ends,you can then decide the process to extend it.One would beto just extend it.So, it’ll ask and you’ll do it. It’ll be easy.No, you must makeit difficult. So, passcode.It’ll ask you for a passcode. But if you have the passcode, then you can easily enter it.No.Make it more difficult.Someone else willset the passcode.Could be your parents. Could be your siblings.Could be your friends.Someone who you live with.You will have themset the passcode. And you’ll tell them,“I should not getthis passcode.If Igenuinely need it thenI’ll ask you to enter itbut I should neverget it because thenI will make itdifficult for me to have that habit.” And then number 4. Make it unsatisfying. That habit will never give youhappiness and peace.A great way ofdoing that is make an accountability partneror find anaccountability partner.Find a personwho is trying to breakthe same bad habitand combine hands together. So, you’ll say,“I make you accountable.You’ll make me accountable.”So, every day,we’ll get downto compare our notes.How much did we indulgein our habit today? Or we didn’t?Did it break?Or it didn’t?So on.Because that will then makeus accounatable notjust to ourselvesbut also to the other person. These 4 steps. Make it invisible. Make it unattractive.Make it difficult. And make it unsatisfying.This is the best way to get rid of any bad habit in your life.Basically not doing it.And then, number 5.Possibly the most important one.Building a growth mindset.A mindsetthat never tries to stop you.A mindsetthat never tells you,“You won’t be able to do it.” “You were born with it.This is your ability.This is your status.This is your value.Be mindful of it.”NO!Everybody in this worldhas a potential to gofar biggerthan what they wereborn with.But it comes onlywith a growth mindset concept. The growth mindset concept is in an amazing bookcalled Mindset by Carol Dweckwhere he introducedit for the first time.Brilliant book, if you can pick it.Again, it is in the comment.Andwhat it says is,“You don’t have a limit.” How do you build a growth mindset?3 ways that I use in my life.Number 1 Spend time with peoplewho are completelydifferent from you.Often, we spendtime with people who are similar to us.They look like us.They talk like us.They are from our city. They are from our college.They are from our company.They are from our department.Blah, blah, blah.But due to that,we listen to things that we already know. And thatthen limitsour perspective.If we spend time with people who are different from us, opposite to us,then our mind will open up.We will be exposed to somethingwhich didn’t knowabout earlierand that is the first thing you have to do.So, the more time you spend with people like you, the same amount of time or even more timeyou should spend with peoplewho are nothing like you. Number 2 At any point in life, never make yourself believe that wherever you are,it is due to your hard work. It is a lie. A complete lie. We are very, very lucky.We are lucky tobe born in a family that gave us love,gave us happiness, gave us education,gave us values, gave us a homedue to which,we have so manyopportunities in lifethat lots of,crores of people,will never ever get tosee in their lifetimes.They work way harder than us.Many people are waysmarter than us.But we feel that we have done a lot in life.We have worked so hardthat what we are getting,that is our right.It is not.The ones with the growth mindset never get entitled.They never feel thatwhatever is happeningwith them in life,it is their right. They,very humble, with gratitude, look at life.They look at anopportunity every day.And they say, “I cannot even believe that I have this world to live in.”"I pinch myself every daythat am I actually able tolive this life every day?""Do I really haveall the thingsthat I get everydayin my life?"And that thendrives them further.Which brings me to thethird and last point for growth mindset.Don’t get comfortable.We feel thatthe only purpose of life is to make it comfortable.Make it easy.As comfortable itcan be made, make it. But that is wherewe falter.Because the peoplewho always keep growing,they alwayschoose the most difficult path. They know thatonly after facing difficulties,they can be victorious.We can become a person that we want to be.Beyond your fearslies your victory.That is whatpeople with a growth mindset do. These 5 ways,these 5 perspectivesof looking at lifecan change your lifeif you were to thinkabout them activelyand bring them to your life. I hope this was useful.Ankur Warikoo.Signing off.