If I die before I turn 56, then my wifewould get Rs 10 crore rupees.If I don't die till I turn 56, then she gets nothing.And this is becauseat the age of 31,I bought a term insurance plan of 10 crore rupees,which said thattill the age of 56, which are the next 25 years, if I die, then my family would get this financial amount.But if I remain alive, then they get nothing.That's sounds likea really bad deal. Was I out of my mind? No.No. In fact, I would saythat this was one of thebest financial decisions that I have made in my life, and in this video, I will give a walkthrough of why I took this decision?Why it may be a smart decision for you as well?And if youwant to buy a lifeinsurance term plan, then what are the things that you should consider?Which insurance plans are there?What are the ridersthat you can select in yourinsurance plans or not?How would you identifywhich company’sinsurance plan to buy?And how do you ensure that it actually worksfor you in terms ofthe cover, the term of the plan,and all of those details.We’ll learn all this through an excel sheet.So, let's begin.But before we begin, this video is sponsored by Ditto.This is importantto know because Ditto is a veryunbiased professional advisorywhen it comes tobuying insurance.They will objectivelytry to tell you that according to your needs,which could bethe best insuranceplan and company for you.This video,because it's sponsored by Ditto,A few other things about Ditto, I'll keep telling thembut first of all,let us try to know that at the age of 31,what got into my head that I thought thatI would buy a 25-yearterm insurance plan? A plan where if I do not die,which of course I wouldwant not to happen, then my family or Iwould not get anything.So, at the age of 31,I bought this terminsurance plan,and I bought it tillthe age of 56 yearswith a cover of10 crore rupees,because I felt like 10 crores is an amountwhere if I diebefore I turn 56,then my familyand my kidswould be able to live properly.They can investsome of that money.They can of course, use it for the kids’ education. Whatever it is.And if I am still alive till 56, then I had enough faith that I would earn 10 crores by myself.That was the notion. But I'll tell you abetter way of deciding the cover in a short while.Myyearly premium is 93,000 rupees, but there was another option, which was thepremium return,and it meanswhatever the return is,if I do not dieby the age of 56,then I would get theentire amount back.Now, that's sounds likea better idea, right.That you get theentire premium back if you don't die,which is what you would want. And if you die, then you get the entire cover. So, from both ends, you get something.But that's not how I thought about it.Here is how I thought about it. The entire amountof my term for 25 years was 23 lakhs.So, I would pay23 lakhs in total.This is notadjusted for inflation. This is at the current value. In the investment,if I give the total amount, because there is a huge difference,I would pay 44 lakhs.Now, that's suddenlysounds like,“Oh my God!At the age of 56, I would get 44 lakhsbecause I wouldhave not died.”But these 44 lakhs, the value of this amountwould be very lessat the age of 56.So, I have to find outwhat is the valueinflation adjusted? Becausethat is its actual value. So, I would calculate this, which isat 6% inflation, and its value would be, at the value today, around 10 lakhs,which is alsonot a bad amount, because in the first option, I have to pay 23 lakh rupees, and the second option, I would atleast geta value of 10 lakh of today. But what you are missing is something calledopportunity cost. If youare able to pay this premium, then by law, the difference of it, which is 85,000 rupees,you should invest it, not in insurance,but anywhere else.And let's just find outthat at what rate of return this value of 10 lakhyou would get in 56 years?I mean you would getat the age of 56,meaning after 25 years.At what return,you can earn at yourself?The answer to that is 5.5%.5.5%Every year,85,000 rupees, for 25 years,if you make it generatereturns at 5.5%, you would get aroundthe same 44 lakhs,which at today's valuewould be nearly 10 lakh rupees. 5.5%can be earned in FDs, friend.You do not needto take any risks. This is exactlyhow the insurance companieswill also give youthe money, right.They are not runningthe company on goodwill.They also need to earnthis money from somewhereso that after 25 years,they can pay you backthe entire premium. The way that they do thatis that they investthe money somewhere and generate a return.If you put it in an index mutual fund,or anywhere else, and let's say you geteven something like8%,you will then havethe equivalent of14.5 lakhs,which is greater than the10.5 lakhs that you will have at the end of 25 years after getting all your premium. If you increase it to 10%, you will have nearly 19.5 lakhs.So, you’ll seethat this becomesa smarter decision to make, which is exactly what I did.Now, let's do itfor someone like you. Suppose you are 23 years old.You do not want tostay alive till 31. Oh, sorry! Sorry.I said it wrong.You do not wantto wait till 31.You want to buy theinsurance right now because you are smarter.Why?Because when you buyinsurance at a younger age,your premium is less,and you will see the difference.At the age of 31, I was paying 93,000 rupees.At the age of 23,if you buy a 5-crore cover,you need to pay just 35,000.If you buy a premium return, then only 59,000 rupees. But in this, there is the same math. So, if tillthe age of 60,which is the retirement age, so for the next 37 years, you will pay the premium.You will pay a premium of 13 lakhs.If you buy thepremium return plan, you will pay a premium of about 22 lakhs.So, after 37 years,at the age of 60,you will get 22 lakhs.But what will be thevalue of these 22 lakh?Only 2.5 lakhs,because after 37 years,inflation would haveeaten up this money,and its value willbe only 2.5 lakhs. If this difference, which is 24,000 rupees,if you invest itfor the entire yearat just4.5 lakhs.at just at 4.5% returns,you will be able toearn these 2.5 lakhs.4.5% is even less than FDs. If you take this to 8%, then you will get 5.6 lakhs as against the 2.5 lakhs.That is the beauty of a term insurance, and that's why, I made the choice.Now, to buy a term insurance, two questions are necessary.What is the time duration?What is the cover?Let's try and understand both. First of all, the duration. The ideal duration isyou buy it till retirement, because till retirement,you are earning money yourself. So, it ensures that,God forbid, if somethinghappens to your lifeduring that periodof your income, then your family wouldget the entire amount that you decided in the cover.After the retirement,the assumption could bethat you would havesome savings of yourself.Your provident fundwould be unlocked. The gratuity or the pension scheme.Whatever it is.So, you will be able to take care of your family by that point, and it’d also be possiblethat if you have kids, then they would have grown.They will be able totake care of themselves.So, you will have to take careonly of yourself or your spouse, and that could be therefrom the savings itself.So, for the duration,my recommendation iskeep it till the retirement age.There are plans whichoffer more duration.So, there's evena full life cover.You would feel thatthis is the best.Take a cover till 100 yearsand whenever I die,my family would get the money. But that naturallywill be a lot more expensive.So, expensivebecause the simple formula of insurance is probability.So, till the age of 60,what is the probabilityof your death?What is the probability ofyour death by the age of 80?So, in India, life expectancy for a man, I think is 71 years,and for a woman isaround 73 years. Meaning it is known thatby the age of 75,the probability is very high that you would be dead.Now, if you suddenly want a life insurance term cover till the age of 80,they will naturally say that,“You will have to pay alot more premium because till the age of 80,it is almost 100% guaranteed, not 100%, but nearly 90% guaranteedthat you would be dead.And that's why,we will have to givethis amount out.” That is why,keep it till retirementbecause till then, youmaintain the probability.Then comes the thing of cover.What should be the cover?Now in this,there are two things. First:What is your eligibility? Second: What should the cover be?Eligibility is a function ofyour salary status,or your income status. So, self-employed peoplehave different eligibility.Salaried people have different. For salaried people,it is 20-25 times oftheir annual income.It means if you earn5 lakhs per year,then 20 times would meanone crore,and 25 times would be 1.25 crore, and that should be the ideal cover.Now, it's possiblethat you might want more cover,and there are plansthat give you that as well.Plans which say thatat some moments of life, you can increase your cover. Suppose you get married.You would get an opportunity to up the cover.Suppose you hadchildren after that,then you get the opportunity to increase your cover. These are great plansbecause basis life events, you get an opportunity.There are also plans which say thatnot at life events,but yearly,you can decideat what percentage yourcover should increase. By 5%. By 10%.Whatever it is.And that also givesyou the opportunitythat as you are getting older,your paying capacityis increasing,then your coverwill also increase.So, this becomes a function of duration and cover.Now, you can imaginethat these things canget very complicated.What should be thecorrect duration according to my age, or according to my condition?Who knows if youhave an existing, or a pre-existing disease?Or if you have an eligibility difference,or in the cover,you are assuming thatI will have a house.Then my kids wouldneed to be married.And then, expensesfor their education. So, I want a bigger cover.What is the best plan for that?To handle all these things, there are services like Ditto, because what Ditto does isit does not sell you aparticular insurance. They don't get involved.They are representing everyone. They want that in this country,every person shouldbuy an insurance,and in the right manner.That's their modus operandi. And they of course,make their money from theinsurance companiesbut because of that, they do not promote them.They only recommend you whatshould be the rightinsurance policy for you basis your needs. Ditto is a service where if you use them,they will not force you to buy. “When will you buy?”So, it's spam free.It is brilliant advicebecause it is comingfrom professionals.It’s unbiased and objectivebecause they do notrepresent any company. It's an independent partythat will give you every data in front of you,and it will try and understandyour needs for makingany recommendationwhich would be right for you. Pinned comment and description have the links to Ditto.Check them out.Now, with every terminsurance policy, there comes a thingwhich is called Rider.What is a rider? Rider meansan additional benefit that you can add in this policy. These riders make itvery interesting because theycan cover almost everythingwhich you would be fearful of,and you want to protectyour family against. First: Accidental Death Benefit.First:Accidental Death Benefit. Just because in our country, so many deaths happen on the road due to accidents, Just because in our country, so many accidents happen on the road every day,Just because in our country, so many accidents happen on the road every day,you can take anaccidental death benefitrider for yourself where, God forbid,if you die in anaccident on the road, then you will get a top upover and above your cover.Second:Critical Illness.It could happen that,God forbid, you did not diebut you are now diagnosedwith a critical illness.Could be cancer.Could be anything else,and that has rendered youincapable of earning an income.Now, what were you buyingthis entire protection for? It was a financial protection.In the event that ifyou are not there,then your family should notbe in a financial turmoil.Now, you are alive.You will have medical expenses, and you cannot earn.Plus,because you're still alive,your term insurancehas not kicked in. But what you can claimis what is a critical illness benefitthrough the rider.So, if God forbid,you are diagnosed witha critical illnessduring the termof this insurance, you will get a payoutwhich will ensure thatyour financial protection is still there.In this, another one is waiver of premium.Because you’re not earning,so the expense of your premium, how will you get that? So, you can claim a waiver of premium benefit through attaching another rider in which, if you are in a condition where your income has stopped,your future premiumis waived off.Just like I said, riders are also whereyou can increaseyour life cover basis life events,or you can increaseyour life cover at a regular frequency,both of whichshould be used if youare buying lifeinsurance quite early,and at that point, the coverallowed for your eligibility,that you feelwould be less in theevent of your death.Remember thisthat this coverRemember this that this cover does not change.If your deathhappens in the firstyear of the policy,or in the lastyear of the policy,you will get thesame cover amount.But because of inflation,the value of thiscover every year, day by day,keeps decreasing.So, it is a smarter wayfor you to adjust for inflationand opt for oneof these riders,especially if yourcover at the beginning was not large enough.I knew that 10 croreswould be right,even if it is receivedafter 25 years,and that's why, I did not opt for this.But I have criticalillness built in,I have my waiver of premium built in, and I haveaccidental deathbenefit built in.These 3 things are alreadyin my insurance plan but I did not opt for increase of cover becauseI already startedwith a large cover.Finally,Finally,a lot of companiesprovide life insurance. How do you selectwhich is the right one? For this,3 ratios or metrics thatare used most often. The first oneis called CSR,or the Claim Settlement Ratio. Whichever company it is, you would want thathowever many claimsthat have been made, meaning however many requestshave been received topay the insurance amount,they have been able to serviceas many claims as possible.Whether they did itthrough their own money,through correct documentation, or their combination.So naturally,CSR becomes a really important ratio for you to determine whether this company is right or not.The higher the CSR,the better the company.But there is one nuance in it. CSR or Claim Settlement Ratiois based on thenumber of claims.It is irrespective ofthe amount of the claim. So, if anyone claimed 1 lakh, or 1 crore, or 10 crores,those three would beconsidered equallybecause it is only measuringthe number of claims.That's why, the second ratio.ASR.Amount Settlement Ratio. It means the entire amount that was claimed,how much of that amountwas settled.And naturally, thisratio is also important. The higher it is,the better.Both these ratios cannotbe considered in isolation.You will have to combine thesetwo to come to a conclusion.So, if someone's CSR is good but ASR is not, that meansthey processedonly the smaller claims. Someone'sCSR is bad but ASR is goodmeans they only processthe expensive claims.If both ratios are good,that means theyvalue both of them.They are focusing onthe claim irrespective of the amount which is claimed,and that makes a company good.Both these data,IRDAIwhich is the regulatory body of insurance regulation in this country,they are listed there.Those links are also in thepinned comment and description. Any company’sannual CSR and ASR ratios, I mean these are ratios.CSR and ASRcan be checked before making your decision.All these details will beprovided by Ditto as wellwhen you go and seektheir help in picking the right insurance policy for you.The third ratio,which is personallyimportant for me, is called the Solvency Ratio. Solvency ratio means if, God forbid,this company receives a largenumber of claimsat the same time,then what is their ability to service all their claims? Usually, claimsare received in anormal manner, right. People are being born.They are dying,and there is thisnormal pattern.But often it happensthat an earthquake strikes,or a terrorist attack happens, or any calamity happens, and due to that, suddenly the number of claims become very high. At the same time,the company startsreceiving a lot of claims.How do they handle that isdetermined throughthe solvency ratio. If it is high, it means they are in agood financial positionto entertain all the claims.If it is low,meaning if any disasteror calamity happens,they may start faltering.In addition to that, of course, the brand of the company is important because you want the company to stay for long.But you also have to recognisethat this is a very tightlyregulated industry. So, it's not likeWarikoo Insurance goes out of businessand your insurancepolicy is lost.No.Before they collapse or they shut down,their entire insurancewill be transferredto some other company.You will get the entiretransfer allocation.You will know exactlywhat's happeningbecause the government tightly monitors this. It's not as trivial like,the company has shut downand your moneyhas gone with it, and that is somethingthat you should notworry about.But even then,invest in a companythat you knowwill live for 20, 30, 40 years.Invest in a companywhose business size is good.Invest in a companywhose customer serviceis what you like.Invest in a companywith whom you havealready banked, or you are a banking partner so that a trust remains,and you know that your life and the financial protection of your family is in safe hands.Just like I said,these could be a lot of things, and to encounterall of this and make iteasy for you to selectthe right insuranceplan for you, Ditto is here.Ditto is a servicewhere you will getspam free advice,unbiased advice,professional advice,and it will be governed by what your needs arearound insurance.In my life,out of all the financialdecisions that I made,I would rankbuying a term insurance for me as one of the top three,if not the top decision.I am very happy that at the age of 31,after convincing my mind,after doing the entire math,I made the decision that has protected my family against my untimely death, and now in peace and joy, however I am living,I can live,and I have just one focusthat till the age of 56, those 10 crore rupees,which I would get throughsome other company if I were to die, I have to earn it myselfso that if I continue to live,and I would loveto live till then, I do not have to rely on anybody elseto make that happen for me. I hope this was useful.A very long,very detailed video but I am sureit was necessary,and I hope that you make the right decision for you by choosinga term insurancefor your family and yourself. Ankur Warikoo.Signing off.