Number 1:Make people feel important. Make people feel that they are important,extremely important.And how do you do that?You do it throughsomething called theSHR method.Seen, Heard and Remembered.Seen: Maintain eye contactwhile talking to people,and if possible, give them a nice compliment.Compliments are usually nicebut still, give thema nice compliment. “You are looking fresh today.” “You are looking nice today.” “You are looking happy today.” “You are looking sharp today.”Number 2: Heard.Make people feel that you are listening to them, and surprisingly,the way you do that isby asking good quality questions.The questions whichmake them feel that you are genuinelyinterested in their life,or their conversation. You genuinely want to know something about them.You are not worried about,"Whether they areinterested in you or not?Whether you aresaying good things? Whether they like you?"No. You are in turn doing everything to know everything about them, and show genuine interest.Number 3: Remembered. Call them by their names.Whenever you meet them,make them remember something that you felt whenyou met them the last time. “You were going on a vacation. How was the vacation?”Or “It was yourkid’s birthday party.How was it?”Or “The last time,you were supposedto give an important project,or the presentationof a project. How was the presentation?”It will make them feel like they are remembered,and this SHR method is such a powerful methodto make people feel important that you will win hearts instantly.In this video, I will talkabout multiple soft skillsthat are necessaryfor your career because we feel thatour career moves forwardbased only on hard skills.Whatever we know,whatever we studied,whatever grades we obtained,whatever experience we have, based only on that,we move forward. But no.As somebodyAs somebody who has been in thecorporate world fora really long time,I have also runmultiple startups, I can tell you with 100% confidence that soft skills, they are the ultimate drivers of your growth,because every person can learnbut these softer issues; How to deal with people?How to talk to people?How to convince themabout ourselves? How to present things? These things are the oneswhich only a few peopleare able to learn,and the ones who do,they move forward.The entire contentof this video wasfrom an interestingInstagram post which was shared by Ben Meer.He is @systemsundayon Instagram. I have shared the linkto this post in the pinnedcomment and description.I would encourage you to follow. I do not know him. This is not a promoted post.I really liked it.This is not a promoted post. I don't know him personallybut I really liked it.So, I thought,why not share this contentin Hinglish for you.This is not a promoted post.I do not know him personallybut I really liked his content.So, I thought,why not make a video on thisso that you can consume itin video format as well.Number 2:Controlling your body language,following the 7-38-55 rule.We feel like thewords we are speaking are very important,and they are important, but not as much as we think.For example, I am creating a lotof expressions through my face.I am creating expressionsthrough my hand movements.Suppose you aremeeting me in person,then through myentire body language; How is my posture?Which directionare my legs facing? How am I wearing my clothes?How have I positionedmy shoulder?What are theexpressions on my face? What are my hand movements?All of thisplays an important part in your communication,and the 7-38-55 rule saysthat in your entirecommunication, only 7% is defined by your words,38%is defined by atonality and your face.So, the tone in whichyou are speaking;If my tone is (welcoming) or if my tone is (dull)where I am just speaking.You can listen if you want. If you don't want to listen, then don't.It is my responsibilityto make this video. I will make it every week.If you are interested,you can read itor watch it. If not,you can move on.I don't care.I will keep makingvideos every week.That's a very different tone, but this tone,which is a lot more welcoming,where there is alot of excitement.On my face, you can see itthat I am interested in teaching you what I know.This is 38% of communication. And then, 55%is your body language.How can you use your hands?How are yourshoulders positioned?How is your posture?Which direction areyour legs facing or not?In what manner, youare moving in the room? How are you using your fingers?Are you playing withyour hair or not?Are you scratchingyour lips or not, or your ear or nose? All of these areindicators of nervousness or not,confidence or not,and these then form your body languagecomposition.Please do not ignoreyour body languagebecause this is a soft skillwhich is exhibited only7% through your wordsand 93% through theentire demeanour of your body.Number 3: Could be a game changer. I started this technique nearly 12 years ago,and this was a suggestionby my seniorin my consulting firm.It’s called the 4-Bullet Update. We feel like our managersalways know what isgoing on with us. But no,because our managers havemany other reportees.They have theirpersonal life as well.They have a boss as well.And of course, a lot ofthings that keep happening.So, they are not keeping track of what we are doing.So, every week,a 4-Bullet point update, if you send it to your manager, you will win over thingswhich only a few peopleare able to do. What will these 4 bullets comprise?Number 1:Here is whatyou asked me to do.So, these are the things that you told me I had to do. Whether you told me this week or before that, but these are all the things that you told me I had to do. Number 2:Here is what I did.So, these are all the things that I did this weekbases the thingsyou told me to do.Number 3:Here are the risksor the blockers.These are the thingsdue to which Ihave not been ableto complete my task effectively, and it could be a risk,maybe the work will notbe completed on time,or a blocker,that I am not ableto move forward,and the reason youshare that is becauseit is your manager’sresponsibility that all these blockers or all these risks,they should manage it for youso that theyallow you to be the best at what you can do.Number 4:If I have extra time,or if my risks andblocks are managed,then these are thethings I can do. These 4 things; What did you tell me?What did I do?What are the things due to whichI could not do my job properly? And if I get more time, or if I get some help,then these are the thingsI will be able to do.This 4-Bullet Update,every week to your managerwill change your game guaranteed.Number 4: In my communication course,I teach this through an exercise. Record yourselfand study your own delivery. Try to read it. Here is how you do it. Let's say youhave to give a presentation, or you are from sales,and on a sales call,you have to close a sale, or you are a coder,and you have to communicate to a larger team the work you have done.All of us hesitate in these things.No one is born withthis knowledge.So, these are all thingsthat we have to grow and learn on our own.But the best people,the ones wereconstantly growing,they are constantlyimproving their art. How do they do that?They watch their own replays.How do the best athletesor best sportspeople move ahead? How do you think Dhoni become what he is today?How did Tendulkarbecome what he is today?How did Roger Federerbecome what is today?How did Messi becomewhat he is today?Because they watch their own game with absolute scrutiny again and again and again,and they find out wherethey were lacking,where did they fall short, and they have to fix it.That's what youhave to do as well. So, every day,on your phone,record a 60-second video on any topic.It could be any topic,but it would be the same topicthat we would use for 30 days.So, it'll be a 30-day challenge. Let's say the topic is Keys.You are talking about keys, or phoneor notebookor a pen. It doesn't matter.Genuinely, the topicdoes not matter. You will choose the topic.You will record thevideo on your phone.For 60 seconds,For 60 seconds,you have to speak on that topic,and when it ends,you will do three things.Number 1: You will look at the videoat zero volume.So, you would justbe watching yourself. What will you test through this? Your body language. Your face.Your hands.That's all you cansee on a phone. So, that's what you will see.Second:You will turn thephone upside down, turn it up to full volume, and listen to yourself,but you won’t see yourself, and you will then figure out that your tonality,your words,what are they trying to express?And then finally,you will watch the entire video.You will make notesabout where do youneed to improve?What were the pointswhere you were like, “umm…”, “but…”,“uh…”,“and…”,“umm…”,all these filler words.Where did you hesitate?Where did you say somethingwhich you shouldn't have?Where did you speakin a different mannerwhere you wanted to speakin a different manner?And you will do that for 30 days.After one month, my friend, I guarantee you this, you would have changed. Your confidence level,your clarity,your communicationwould be on a completelydifferent levelin just one month.That is what the record and studyingyour speaking will do.Number 5:How to connect with people,network with people?This is important to know.How do you will rapport?And the surest way to do that is to ask questions.So, ask questions.But questions are of two types.First:The icebreaking questions.Suppose you are meetingsomeone for the first timein an office party,or your boss isintroducing you to someone,or you are meeting yourcolleague for the first timewhatever the case maybe,and you are lost for words.So, whenever I havemy communicationlive class every month, this is the top question.How do you have aconversation with strangers?I tell them to use icebreaking questions.What are icebreaking questions? These are the questionswhose answersare guaranteed to be known by the other person,and they also know whether thequestion is right or wrong.Here’s an example.Where did you grow up?The other person would 100%know the answer to this. They also know thatwhatever the answer they give,it would not haveany right or wrong.Their answer would be correct.Where did you grow up?Where did you study? How many kids do you have?Where were you working last? How long were you there?Since how long have youbeen in this company?What type of profileshave you had? Who were you last reporting to?All these areicebreaking questions.The other person knows theanswer to these questions, and there is no measure of right or wrong. There is clarityand decisivenessthat their answerwould be correct.Now, why do you use them as ice breaking questions?Because you making theother person comfortable.You are asking questionswhich they wouldknow the answer to.They also know that thoseanswers are correct. This really helps in lowering their guard. They do not feel likethey are being evaluated.They don't feel likethey are being interviewed. They don't feel like,“I should not giveany wrong answers.”Once you do that,you move to the open-ended questions.Open-ended questionsare the ones they mightnot have the answers to,and even if they do,it would be an opinion.It could not be right or wrong.For example, “How do you like your work?”Now, they might not knowthe answer to this question, because maybe they are new,or they don't want to answer, or even if they answer,it could not be aright or wrong answer.Some people will like their work.Some people willnot like their work.Or, “You worked atGoogle previously. How was it working at Google?”They may not knowthat answer because maybe they did not see the entire Google culture,they just workedin a small office,or what not,or maybe they like liked it, maybe they didn’t like it,and it could also be an opinion.But what you do isask an open-ended questionso that they canshare their opinion,and the key is you have to be interested,not interesting.I'll say that once more.The key to building a rapport, to building a network is to be interested,not interesting.It means you do not haveto waste your thought on,“Whether the otherperson likes me?Whether they feelthat I am interesting?Whether they feelthat I am impressive?”No.Your entire thought,your entire energy shouldbe focused into one thing.How can I be interestedin the other person?I am genuinely curiousto know them,and that will happenthrough askingthe right questions.Number 6:Number 6: Super fun,but 100% recommended.Send Friday updates to your team.So, the way you sendprofessional update to your boss,which iswhat did you tell me,what did I do, blah, blah, blah, send your teama sort of fun updatewhich will help thembond with youand build trustover a period of time. In this email, there will be two components.Number 1: Highlights from the past week.In this, you couldtalk about your work.“I worked on this.I enjoyed this.In all these things, someone else helped me.”Calling them out,thanking them.“In all these things, I was stuck but I'll get through it.In all these things, if I get help,then I will be thankful.”So, it's about workbut you are notsending a reportbecause this is a team. They don't care about it.Neither you report to them,nor they report to you.So, you do not have to givean answerable response.You have to sharewhat were the emotions you feltwhen you wentthrough your work, and through this, if you ask genuinely for help,or if you just tell people about what you did, they will feel connected to you.And the second part will be something that’s personal. Something that’s fun,whatever you're comfortable with.So, it's not necessaryfor you to be like, “Look at my kid’s first tooth, my kid’s first birthday, the first time they walked,my wife did this.” No.You don't have to do all this, but anything that you feelyou will be comfortablesharing your team. “This movie is launched,or released.So, I am planning to go there.”Or “The last week,I watched this movie.I really liked it.” Or “This concert is happeningand I would like to go there.”Or “This walk is taking placeand I would loveto have company.If someone wants to tag along, please let me know.”Or “This newrestaurant has opened.It has great reviews. So, I am going there.” Or “It's the IPL finals. I am really interested and looking forward to it.Let's see who wins.”Something that makes you human.Your team,instead of lookingat you as a role, as a designation, as a company, they look at you as a human.“He is Ankur Warikoo.He, of course, comes to work and he works, but beyond work, he is also a human, and these are the things that define him as a human.” Through this, you create a bond,a trustwith your teams that supersedes any of the other activities that you would doyou do on a daily or aregular basis with them.Number 7:Game changer.Don't gossip,don't complainever.EVER If at any point,with any colleague,if you are gossiping aboutsome other colleague,rememberthat someone isgossiping about you somewhere else.You do not want to participate.You should not participatein the office politics.You should notparticipate in gossip,and you shouldcertainly not complain. “I will leave my job.My boss is not good. This company is not good.Nothing happens here.”You have to recognisethat complaining neveraccomplishes anything. When you complain, you are doing just one thing.You are givingthe world that controlwhich should be with you. You are saying,“Whatever I could have done, I did it.Nothing is undermy control now.Now, I can onlycomplain because it is someone else’s responsibility to fix this thing.I will onlykeep speaking.I will keep yelling.I will keep flaring up.” That never solves anything.And the peoplewho move forward in life,I have personally seen,they earn respect, they earn money,they gain experience,they gain status and prosperity, they are rarely, if ever, found gossiping or complaining.Period.Please don't do it.And finally, number 8:Remember people by their names.What is the most personalasset people have?Their name.The most personal.Maybe the first ownedasset of their lives,which they did not buy,which they did not choose.Their parents named them, and they went on with it,but it is so personal for them that if you takea person's name whiletalking to them, they will feel important guaranteed.So, in a conversation,don't justnot use their name.So, in a conversation, use their name.“I understand what you'regoing through, Ankur.I get it. I really do,but you need to understandthat this task cannotproceed in this manner.You are tryingreally hard, Ankur.You are working really hard, and it is visible.I can see it.I know it,but if this thing isunable to move forward,then you need to changesomething, my friend.You need to dosomething differentthat you have not done till now,and you then have to tell me. You should tell me that this is the wayI would need it to do, that this is where I need help,that this is whereyou can help me,and I will help you.I want to help you,but you have torecognise, Ankur, that my job is only to help you.It's your job to do your work,and you are the only onewho can make this happen.”When you talk like this,it will be a completelydifferent conversation.Take people's nameswhile talking to them.When you put these8 things together,soft skills that any schoolor college would not teach,which we learn aftermaking a lot of mistakes,but the ones who areable to learn them, and the ones who learn them, they move forward,and they move forwardso fast becausethe truth ispeople like working with people who are likeable.People want to workwith good people,and through these soft skills,your importancethat you can establishamong people,the importance thatyou can give them,you can project yourselfas a good person,in reality, without faking it, then you will find it easier to move forward in life.If you use these8 methods in your life, it will change everything. If there is another way that is in your mind,that you have personallyused in your life andyou've found it to be beneficial,please share it with peopleso that through thecomment section, all of us can learn with you.Ankur Warikoo,signing off.