This video is about Tyler Durden.Tyler who?Tyler Durden, according to me, is the world’sbest philosopher. During his time,he said some thingswhich can tell usa lot about life.Who is Tyler Durden, Ankur?Will you tell us?24 years ago, a movie was released. It was called Fight Club.In 1999, I was 19 years old.I remember I was 21 or 22when I firstwatched Fight Club. Brad Pitt was in it so; Brad Pitt at that time wasa really cool-dude hero.And then Edward Norton, who is an impeccable actor.And the story isvery interesting. Edward Norton, who isalso the narratorof the movie. His life iswasted.Same old job.Same old grind.Not happywith life.Trying to find an escape.And one day, on his flight,he meets Tyler Durden, played by Brad Pitt. He sells soaps.Soap salesman.But as story progresses, they form a veryinteresting relationship.This movie is notabout fighting.This movie is not aboutfights and action.This movie is about life. And in this video,some of Tyler Durden’sdialogues are what Iwill share with youwhich I am surewill help you understand life in a better manner.If possible,watch this movie. But if not, then through this video,you’ll get a few glimpses.Number 1.“This is your life and it’s ending one minute at a time.” This is your lifeand one minute at a time, this life is ending.This is ahard-hitting dialogue.This is from theStoic philosophy.Stoic philosophytells us that we should always be aware thatour life is temporary.We can die anytime.And if we have our end, our death in front of us,being aware of itwhile living our lifethen our life won’tbe scary at all.It will actually befull of realization that every single moment is necessary.People say<i>“Kal Ho Na Ho”</i>“This is the chance.” “This is the moment.”And all of that is true. All of that is trueand it is importantto understandthat nothing isever insignificant.In every single moment,your life is ending.So, every single momentis important.So, never everwaste it on anything that you don’twant to do in life.Second dialogue.“I say never be complete. I say stop being perfect. I say let’s evolve.Let the chips fallwhere they may.”I say never be complete.I say don’t be perfect. I say thatlet’s keep growing, let’s keep evolving.And wherever, whatever we get to learn,we will keep learning.This is such a beautifulway to look at life.We always wantto live a perfect lifebecause Instagramtries to teach us thatlife is perfect.Perfect clothes.Perfect food.Perfect vacation.Perfect smile.Perfect selfie.Perfect family. Perfect life.But nothing is perfect.We were born to make mistakes,not fake perfection.Our life’s existence isthat we make mistakesand we move on,not to just barricade ourselves with perfection. That is not sustainable. So, you’ll make mistakes.In the beginning,everyone will make mistakes.But learning from them can make you win. Beyond your fearlies your victory.Don’t try and be complete.Don’t try and be perfect.Try and evolveas much as you can.This dialogue ismaybe my favouritein the entire movie. Tyler says,“The things you ownend up owning you.”Every single thing that you own,actually those things own you. And think about that.Our phone, our watch,our car,our house,our clothes,every single thingthat we buy, we buy them becausewe feel that through that,we will have respectin the society.But at the end of it,we end up becominga slave of itbecause it is neverjust one thing.One more.And one more.And this is unlimited. This will never end.The only way tofree yourself is to realisethat these things are notnecessary to live life.These things are notnecessary to be happy.These things arenot necessary that at the end of the dayput you in a sleep whichis very beautiful,very sweet.All of these thingsadd upbut you can’t let them own you.Next.“Without pain, without sacrifice,we would havenothing.Like the first monkeyshot into space.” Without pain,without sacrifice, we would have nothing.Like the first monkeyshot into space.A monkey wasn’t thefirst to go to space but figuratively speaking.Essentially, theywant to say thatwithout falling, we can never rise and without falling,we can never learn.No one is born withall the knowledge. If you really think about it, you learn the mostwhen you fall and you realise something,improve on itand move on.So, don’t be afraid of falling. Don’t be afraid of suffering. Don’t be afraid of pain. Be afraidof stagnation. Be afraid that you are stuck where you are.You are not ableto move ahead.That is the real fear in life.And Tyler so beautifullyshares this philosophy of life in the movie ‘Fight Club’“No fear. No distractions.The ability to let that which does not matter truly slide.”This is such abrilliant concept!Think about this.No fear. No distractions.A way such thatthe things that don’t matter,you try to slide them away.You try to ignore them.You try to not react to them. Think about that.There are so manythings that happenin our everyday lives that genuinely don’t create an impact.They don’t matter.But despite that, you react to everything.You had a smallfight with someone. You got mad at someone.You are not on goodterms with someone.Every single thing that irks us;when we go intothe reaction mode, get involved,think that this is themost important thingof that day, at that time, at that moment.They are not truly important.If you step backand I ask you that in the previous day,previous week,previous month,what were the mostimportant events? I guarantee youthat none of thoseevents would bewhere you didn’t stickto insignificant thingsand tried to make them big.No fear.No distractions.No fear.Attention would never wander.All that you care about is whether this thingis actuallyimportant for me or not? And if no,let it slide. “Maybe self-improvement isn’t the answer.Maybe self-destruction is the answer.”This can be easilymisinterpreted. So, I’ll try to explain.This dialogue isnot trying to say that harm yourself, injure yourself.No! It says thatevery person isstuck in improvement.Improve yourself. Make yourself productive.Make yourself better.Make yourself fast.Make yourself this and that.Very often, it’s start or foundation iswho you are currently?And this dialogue saysthat maybe self-improvementisn’t the answer.Self-destruction is the answer. It means that what you are,maybe that isstopping you becoming better. So, destroyyourself.NOT in practical real life!!!Whatever is thepersonality in your head,whatever are yourbelief systems,whatever thinking processesthat are stopping you,destroy it completely.Destruct yourself and start all over again.Your entire existence, erase it,move it and take a new form.If you are able to do that,you are able to reinvent yourself.Andyou do it like it’s magic!At the age of 40,when I started mycontent creation journey, most people were like,“What are you doing?Are you crazy? Years of experience, years of running startups,all your degrees and youare leaving all thatto make videos?” But it takes a lot to reimagine yourself,reinvent and then see yourselfin a new light.That’s what I did.You can do it too.Every single person can do it.I don’t have anythingspecial that you don’t. But the key maybe to not centeron self-improvement.Instead, look atyourself in the mirrorand ask yourself that,“Anything,my beliefs within methat are stopping me,can I destroy themand move forward?”And finally,“It’s only afterwe have lost everything that we are free to do anything.”It is often said that, “The person who has no one, nobody can defeat him.”“The person who has no fear,no one can win against him.”That’s basically whatthe dialogue says.That the momentwhen you know thatnothing is yours,you are free to do anything.I remember whenI resigned as theCEO of Nearbuy in 2019, my resignation announcementwhich I publicly shared, these were the last 2 lines.That when everythingis uncertain,anything is possible.When anything can happen, then actuallyanything is possible. Anything can happen!And that to me isthe beauty of life.Not like a horselooking in just one direction.Not left. Not right. Don’t examine the whole world. Instead, look at everything.What you are,destroy it andimagine a new form. If you are an engineer,can you notbecome a musician?If you are a CA,can you not become a writer? If you are a doctor,can you not becomean artist?Anything is possible.Not just one single identity,look at yourself inmultiple identitiesbecause that may tell you what is it that you truly need or want in life?Tyler Durden isa fictional character.But as I said in the beginning,he is maybe themost importantphilosopher of our time because in film dialogues,with such simplicity,he shares such importantrules of life with us.Fight Club,a movie that I would highly recommendfor all of you to watch it.Available on a lot of OTTs; not a lot of butwhichever OTT has it, please try and watch it. Or wherever you can find it. But the key is:Watch it not forthe fact that it is a movie.Watch it like a moviewhich will teach yousomething about lifethat you haven’t been toldin such a hard-hitting manner till now.I hope this was helpfuland enjoyable.Ankur Warikoo. Signing off.