Tuesday, 1st August, 9:06 a.m.This is me telling you aboutMonday's schedule because on Tuesday, I realised thatif we are making aweekly routine video,then it's good to document each day.That will be a good exercise. On Monday, I had my weekly shoot.Usually, my day isrelatively free on Mondays. I just have one meeting.Project Blind.It's almost nearing its end.In a few days, thisproject will be released, and once it gets done,you will all get to know.In the evening at 6:45 p.m., we have the launch of a new course titled 'How to LinkedIn'.Its launch is scheduled,and it's a two-hour session.Because of this,on Monday, I couldn'tcomplete my entire shoot,and that shows in my report.We track our entire worldon a software called Asana,and this is my world of tomorrow.I haven't done all of this,which is why it's overdue.Nothing for today, thankfully.There are many thingsscheduled for this week, and we'll get to see. Today is the first of August,and the first meeting that I have isat 10 a.m. with Ritwik.Ritwik is an ex-colleague from nearbuy.He worked at nearbuyfor many years and thenhas gone on to do multiple things,but we have stayed in touch. So today is generally a catch-up.After that, I have blocked 1.5 hours to finish my shoot,which couldn't happen,but in between that, there'sa call with Ananya Shukla.Ananya is from Unilever,and this Saturday, I have to attenda special session at Unileverto a special placethat I love going to.That will be revealed on Saturday, but this call today isa briefing call whereAnanya will tell me what all is expected from me,what all do I have to do so that I am well-prepared for that session on Saturday.At 5 p.m., I have a call with Epic.Epic is a digital marketing agency.Today is also my mom's birthday.In the evening, we'llhave dinner together.But the first thing I dobefore I get into anymeetings and calls is check my emails.So, my primary emailwarikoo@gmail.com has 39 unread emails,and warikoo@ankurwarikoo.comhas 10 unread emails,and thankfully, there's nothingon ankur.warikoo@nearbuy.com.These are my screens.This is my workplace. It's 9:13 a.m.on Tuesday, the 1st August, and I'm just getting started. There's a lot to do.My studio and officeare on the lower floor.We live on the 13th floor,and on the 12th floor,there's the office guest housewhere the team members stayand where my studio is as well.So, I keep going up and down. I'm back at my place now.From here, I often work and I get my emails donebefore the 10:00 a.m.call that's scheduled. Okay, see you. Bye. Bye, Ritwik.10:33 a.m.Just finished my meeting with Ritwikand my breakfast is ready. So, every day I fast for 18 hours.Around 10:30 a.m. is when Ihave my first meal of the day,and this is my meal for the day.This is mango and paneer withbasil leaves, salt, and black pepper.It's 11:20 a.m.The next meeting is about to start,and the good news is thatI haven't done my shoot yet because someone came homeand I had to spend time with them.These are the challengesof working from home,but it's alright. If it extends past 2:00 p.m., that's not a problem.5 minutes for the call to start.I'm checking my emails a bit.Emails should alwaysbe at zero unread.One time management trickthat always helps is, if any task can be done in 2 minutes,do it immediately.So, I am not getting additional emails, my email is paused. So, I receive emails only three times a day. 8:00 a.m., 12:30 p.m.,and 6:00 p.m.,and that's how I keep my emailsto the minimum distraction.And two, it gives me the focus that whatever emails come,I can tackle themwithin half an hour.(Ankur shooting weekly videos)3:30 p.m. Finally got done.All the videos have been shot and uploaded on Google Drive,and now I have 1.5 hoursbefore my next meeting.By the way, I also changed my T-shirtbecause for ads,there are different T-shirts,different settings, green screen,what needs to be done.It's 4:00 p.m. and I usuallytake a half-hour to one-hournap in the afternoon.At 5:00 p.m., I have a call.So, before that, it's nap timefor an hour or however much.Now, the 5:00 p.m. call is done.At 6:00 p.m., my emails will come.That will be the last slot.And as I said, it's mom's birthday today.So, we'll be busy during dinner.The more importantthing is that today, my schedule had only shoots. There were a few calls,and that's it.The day's over.Hello everyone.Wednesday, 2nd August, 9:22 a.m. Ready for work.First, at 10:00 a.m.,there's a one-on-one with Aditya.Aditya is in my team, responsiblefor creating all the short videos.At 11:00 a.m., I need to write my weekly newsletter.Then, at 4:00 p.m., I have a meeting withthe Unacademy graphic team.At 5:00 p.m., ScaleX. ScaleX is a digital marketing agencythat handles all theads for the courses. From 5:30 to 6:30 p.m., I haveto reply to the InstagramAMA, Ask-Me-Anything,and then we have our class for 'How to LinkedIn,' which will start at 7:00 p.m. and go on until about 9:00 p.m.Just got done with the meetingwith Aditya. I'll write the newsletter for an hour,but it's 10:46 a.m. right now, I have 14 minutes. So, in a little time,I'll check LinkedIn and Twitter. Just add in a little bit of content here and there. So, we will do that until 11:00 a.m.and then, from 11:00 a.m. to12:00 p.m., my newsletter.Then, I have a lotof time after that.The sound of utensils might be there.Work from home.That's how it is.12:02 p.m. Newsletter done. It's called "Pressure Points." Kids' school is happening from homedue to the Haryana situation.So, now it's Uzma's lunch break,and I have to prepare her lunch.Need to heat up rajma rice.I was reading for the past hour. Feeling a bit sleepy.It's 3:07 p.m.,so I can take a 40-minute nap. The next meeting is at 4:00 p.m.Just got done with themeeting at 4:50 p.m.It's my dinner time.So, this is my lastmeal of the day. It's around 5:40 p.m.Time for the Instagram AMA.Then, at almost 7:00 p.m.,our LinkedIncourse class is about to start,which will run foralmost 1.5 hours. So, the day has been long,not much done,but it got stretcheduntil the end. At 9:20 p.m., I just finished thelive class of 'How to LinkedIn,'and I am so done with the day. Let's call it a close. Thursday, 9:19 a.m. and this is all that we have to do today.First, let's check the calendar. At 9:45 a.m., a quick callwith the team regarding how to grade assignments for the last class of our LinkedIn course. Then, at 10 a.m.,we have the weekly review withthe LinkedIn and Instagram teams. At 10:15 a.m.,we review weekly YouTube activities.At 11:00 a.m.,I have to call Rachna Ranade, who creates great content on YouTube,for some work that I have with her.From 11:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.,I have to shoot ads which is a weekly ritual.From 12:00 to 2:00 p.m.,I have to review content,but this time I need to writemore content because Vibhuti,our content writer, is down with dengue.So, wishing her welland getting it done.But in the meantime,from 12:30 to 1:30 p.m.,I have an interaction with ET Markets.I will be discussing finance matterswith Neha Vashishth from ET Markets.And since it's the 3rd August,the start of the month,I have to sit down and go through theself-evaluations of the entire team.So, at the end of each month,they submit a self-assessment of how their month went,what worked, what didn't work,and they rate themselves.Then, I sit down, review it, and provide feedback on the ratings.These ratings feed backinto their bonuses,which they get at end ofthe quarter as part of theprofit-sharing in WariCrew.At 4:30 p.m., I have a one-on-onewith Shivam, our audio engineer. Then, at 5:00 p.m., I have a weekly call with the India Internet Day team.This is a big eventthat happens every year.This year, I am one of the threepeople who are organising it. And in the evening, Kunal, a dear friend from schoolwho is visiting India withhis family from the U.S.,is coming over for dinner. That's the entire day. It's an unusually packed day,but part of it is becausethe month is starting,and yes, I also need to pay myCitibank credit card bill today.It's 1:40 p.m. right now.The live stream withET Markets just ended. The content review is almost done.The self-evaluation of theteam is about to start,and then we'll have about1.5 hours of time to rest a bit.My one-on-one with Shivamand the call is done.There's a nice sunlight anda little shade as well,and some clouds are forming. Let's get started with the self-evaluation of the team.For dinner preparations today,we are making Mexican cuisine.Both Ruchi and I enjoy cooking, so we are cooking dinner.6:40 p.m.I am donewith my Asana. Yayy! Dinner is also ready and I am done with the day.Friday, 4th August, 9:02 a.m.Let's look at whatthe calendar is today. Right now, I have a one-on-one callwith Shaurya.He's the YouTube lead.Then, at 10:30 a.m., I needto write a Twitter threadthat I write every Friday.At 11:15 a.m., I have to go to Gurgaon for a keynote.So, I'll leave around 10 a.m.and I'll write while I'm on the road. I have a shoot day today because I'll be travelling on Monday.So, I'm working onMonday's shoot today,and at 4:30 p.m.,I have a call with Nihal. He's an ISB alumwho is writing a book on ISB alumniand wants to interviewme for an hour.That's Friday for you. Let's get the day started.Alright, we are now headingto Gurgaon for the event.That's Aditya in the background.And this is Anand bhaiya. Bhaiya, say hello.Hello. Very nice.This is Piyush.These are our two editors.Piyush, long- formand Aditya, short-form, and I am zero form.So, I am going to talkabout fearless leadership,which I have no idea aboutbecause my team certainlywon’t call me fearless leader.Very quickly wrap up, come backand then for the shoot.Check, one, two.How’s everyone doing? There’s no other country that has set this precedence of this scale in this time period itself.300 million peoplewill be qualified to join theworkforce in less than a decade.And the truth is all of you,whether you like it or not,as people managers are celebrities. Every single action of yoursis being measured, recordedand evaluated at infinitium.We had no choice but to wait. It’s not that we loved to be patient.We were just given no choice and thus we became that. But today’s generation,they were born in avery different world.This is not a temporary shift. It’s a permanent shift that is here to stay.You don’t have to win for somebody to lose and you don’thave to lose if somebodyelse has already won.Success doesn’t alwayscome from hard workand failure doesn’talways come from laziness. Don’t ever forget that.When you bring these3 things together,you essentiallybring about what I believeis fearless working.The one thing that hopefullyI can testify for is, I have over the last decadebuilt a team of fearless people,and when you build a fearlessorganisation, fearless leadership just becomes a term that everyone can throw aroundbut nobody really feels it in their blood.My question is:Where do you bring that positivity?The genuine answer is I don’t surroundmyself with anything negative.I don’t have negativepeople in my life.I have cut out allnegative relationships.I don’t follow any news.I don’t consume any contentwhich is meant specifically for thepurpose of negativity and triggering. I have a wonderful family.We love each other. I love my work. I love my team.Yeah, I doand there’s generallyvery little in my life that gets me disturbed.Just finished the call that I had and it’s 4:30 p.m. It is 6:09 p.m. and I have to finish my shoot.Some videos are shot, some more to go.Today is going to be a bit longer.It's almost 9:00 p.m. It's almost 9:40 p.m.A lot of time has passed today.Day's over.The first half oftomorrow is kind of chill,but at 11:00 a.m., I needto head to the airportbecause tomorrow I'm going toAhmedabad and I'll tell you whyonce we get to it.Have a good night, everyone.Friday is over.12:53 p.m. on Saturday.I'm at T3 airport, heading to Ahmedabad. IIM Ahmedabad campus.Unilever, they arehaving a campus eventcalled Unilever Diaries Live and I am part of that, which is very exciting.I will talk about what myMBA experience was like. What was corporate life after that? It’s exciting.One, two, three.Alright. Long day.I just got done. I am currently at Ahmedabad airportand the tragic news is that my flight has been delayed by an hour. I will land at 12:15 a.m., reach home by 1:30 a.m.,and that'll be a long night but I had a lot of fun,had a great time. Tomorrow is going to be a fun day and we will talk about it tomorrow.So, we will see you on Sunday.Good night everyone.6th August, 10:40 a.m.There's nothing on Asana becauseit's Sunday and everything was done. Two things are overdue. One is pending from a team member. I have completed this ad shootbut it's not uploaded yet,plus it's Sunday, so let's look at the calendar.First, I send my stats to Sagar Ahuja,who is my fitness trainer, every Sunday.Uzma has her chessclass every Sunday. So, that's something thatis on the calendar,just so we don't miss it,but there's nothing else.The day looks chill.Alright, now let's take a look athow many hours I worked this week,and there will betwo parts to it.One, the work I had to do.That work that I didout of requirement. The work that I did willingly.So, it was still work,but I chose to do it because I wanted to,without any external pressure.I made that decision to do it.It's important tosegregate this becauseoften we spend our time doingtasks that others want us to do,but what is importantis when you dothings for yourself,based on your own desire,and that is what makeswork truly special.Now, let's see.On Monday, half an hourwas spent on catching up.Then there was a 4-hour shoot, and two hours of LinkedIn class. So, this totals to 6.5 hours.On Tuesday, I didn't do anythingexcept for half an hour,which was mandatory.So, 7 hours.On Wednesday, therewas a one-on-one that I do by choice.I had to write my newsletter,which is essential work.Then we had our weeklydigital market meeting, which is essential work.I had an AMA session,which I do by choice,and there was a LinkedInclass, which is essential work.When you add that up, it's almost 9.5 hours of essential workand around 2 hours ofwork that I did by choice.Now, Thursday.There were severalreviews in the morning.Half an hour was spent on that.Then there was an ad shoot, which took an hour.So, we're at 11 hours now.Then there wasself-evaluation of the team,which is important.That took an hour.12 hours.And there were one-on-one sessions, which I do by choice.Two more hours.So, we are at12 hours of essential workand about three hours ofwork that I did by choice.Now, on Friday morning,there was an event that lasted almost two hours, but I attended it by choice.So, that adds up to 5 hours.Then it was a shoot day,but this shoot was for next Monday,so I won't count it for this week.However, you can seethat I was doing it,but it was a part of aregular weekly routine,so we skipped it.On Saturday, I spent almost half a day,from 3:00 p.m. to almost 2:00 a.m.,because I reached home by then,and that was the Unilever DiariesLive event at IIM Ahmedabad.This was something Idid entirely by choice.No one forced me to do it.It added up to 12 hours.So, for a whole week, I workedabout 13 hours on essential tasksand about 15 hours ontasks I did by choice.This was my weekly work routine.From this routine, I learned three things.First, the best way to live lifeis to not rent out your timebut share yourexperience with people.Most people, including myself in my 20sand 30s, used to give their time as rent.The more time I gave,the more I earned.The less time I gave,the less I earned.But today,I'm not paying my timebut my knowledge as rent.This means that evenwhen I'm not working, even when I'm not putting in hours, I'm still earning because thatknowledge is making my earnings.Number 2:You're nothing all by yourself.Teaming up with others andtechnology makes you more capable.You don't need to bea boss or a leader. Ask for help. Many hesitate to ask for help.When you doask for help from friends,your boss, your family,your siblings,and they extend help,your work grows,and you achieve more in your time.More importantly,you learn more in less time.Number 3:Keep track of everything.From the age of 13 to 26,I recorded every hour of every day. I started with a notebook,then shifted to Excel sheets.The notebooks got eaten by termites, but the Excel sheets are still there. If you ask me what I wasdoing at 10:50 a.m.on 6th August 2004, I can give you the answer because I recorded that.What did you do? This instilled discipline in me.I could instantly tellwhether a day would beproductive or notjust by looking atmy day and routine.It would be good or not.I could predict how I wouldfeel at the end of it.That habit is still continuing.What you saw on the calendarhelps me become more disciplined,productiveI know where my time goes,why it goes there,and how does that make me feel.The progress of your life should betowards achieving these three things.You will free yourselfnot just financiallybut also emotionallyand psychologicallybecause you will dothings you want to do, things that make you happy,things you good at,and that will bethe best life lived ever.Ankur Warikoo, signing off.