Check 1, 2.All apps.Piyush, in this Iwill be using screenshareof my mobile for giving a walk through.I have put the audio on the mobile also.But use this one also.Your home screen is themost important thingbecause the higher the number ofapps on your home screen,the higher will be the distraction.The clearer the home screen isthe more effective yourphone usage will be.This is my home screen. As youcan see, it has only 5 apps.In fact, there is onlyone on the main grid.And it is distraction-free.Let's go through this because in thisvideo, I will be showingyou all those appswhich are on my phone,why they are there,how I use them,and maybe that canbenefit you as well.Firstly, on the home screenthere are 4 apps at the bottom -Phone, Email,Calendar and Music.Phone - because it is one of thepurposes, but I don't call much.And I get a lot of calls, so thereare many missed calls andmany spam calls.But all thatkeeps coming. Email -my lifeline. Email and calendarare the two of my most used apps.My entire to-do list is on my email.So if I have to getsomething done myselfor from someone else, I send theman email or I send myself an email.If someone else needsme to do something,I ask them to send me an email.Email is my wayof making sure I doeverything that I have to because Imaintain a zero-inbox,which means there is neveran unread email in my email.Each and every email is read.And I will read each and every mail.On my Calendar, my whole life lies.So if we look at the calendar,so we're looking at it onMonday, the 29th of May,and there is a weekly shoot,as you can see.In the morning, there wasa session with Accenture.At 7:00 PM,there will be a weeklyhuddle with my team.Tomorrow, I am goingto Bombay for the sales meetof Accor, which a very big hotel group.And at 04:15 PM, I will becatching up for my upcoming book.And then there are multipleother things which keep going on.The cool thing about iPhone is,actually about GoogleCalendar is thatthis is your calendar in list view,and when I flip it,it turns into a weekly view.So you can actuallysee your entire weekwhich I felt was quitecool. And then there is Music.In Music, it has allthe songs which I like, all the songswhich Vidur, our 12 year old son,also likes.So he keeps adding in there. Wehave Apple Music's subscription.We had recently gone toBackstreet Boys' concert, sothere many Backstreet Boys' songsin the list right now.So I have almost goneback to the 2000s when Iwas 16-18 years old,maybe I was your age.That is Music. And then the only appon the screenis this app called -Calm.Calm is my meditation app.This is the app that Iuse to meditate every dayfor 30 minutes. I don't listen toany voice, so nobody is telling meand guiding through it.I only listen to the sounds ofbirds, water and wind and meditate.I focus on mybreath in my mind.And every ten minutes, a bell rings,so after 3 bells, I understand that30 minutes are overand that is how my indication is.This is my home screen.As you'll see, it is veryvery clean. So wheneverI will open my phone,it's there and thenI will, by the way, this is mylock screen - Do Epic Shitof course.And when I open the screen, my homescreen comes, which ensures that Ihave minimal excuses for distraction.Then I go to the secondscreen and second screenis slightly more distracting.You will be able to seethat all the top apps that I useare present. So let's start.Firstly, Settings. Settings isjust normal settings.After that, Clock.My main reasons for Clock areworld clock -it is for the main cities where myfriends live or there is any work,to be able to know the time for that.And then, alarm. You can seethat 05:09 AM is my main alarm,which is when I have towake up if I haven't woken upby my own. So usually Iwake up between 04:30 - 05:00, but ifI don't by any chance,this alarm rings at 05:09.I have turned this alarm off becauseI have put that alarm on the watch,so it wakes me up slowly, which I findbetter as againstthe experience of the phone alarm.Calculator - I like numbers a lot,so I keep exploring. But the coolthing about the iPhone calculator isthat this is straight,and then the minute you turn it,it becomes a scientific calculator.So I can use all of myformulas, which is quite cool.Then there is Safari. Safariis the web browsing app.So I don't use Chrome on myphone, I use Safaribecause I find itbetter, atleast in thephone experience.After that, there is Amazon.Amazon isjust the standard app.The only difference isthat this is a business app.As a business, we areregistered with Amazon, so we getGST credit, so that's why weuse this app a lot foralmost all our purchases.After that - Photos.Photos is just my entireworld, everything documented.Out of this, I share fewthings on Instagram, fewthings in the newsletterand few things I never share.But this is just my journey of howI am going about my life. Ikeep documenting many things,it can be the kids' videos,my own videos,our family outings or anything.It's just a wonderfulway of documenting.Camera is the camera, which is howyour camera would also be. Afterthat, this app is called Garage Band.Garage Band is a very interesting app. This is thenative app of Applefor voice recording.So if you want to do high-qualityvoice recording, Garage Band is agreat app. This isavailable only on iPhone maybe.So if I have to record any podcastor any audio fileor ifI am travellingand I have the camera but I cannottravel with the mic,so I would put my mic intomy phone on Garage Bandand I will capturethe video through the cameraso that I get both -high quality videoas well as audio.Next is Paytm. Mostly there are twouse cases for Paytm -movie ticket purchasingand also UPI.UPI is mydominant purchase. So for manypayments or if I have to add anythingdirectly through the bank account,it is all done via UPI.Then there is iTabla Pro.iTabla Pro is an interesting app.It's basically an app through whichyou can hear the sound of tanpura,which is what I useto get mykeys rightwhen I practise Indianclassical vocals. SoI'll make you hear this.So you will see. This is Cwhich is the scale at which I singand based on that, this tanpura plays.So I will try tomatch my 'Sa' with this.And that is when I will know thatI am singing as per the rightboth -scale and sur.Then after that -Google. Google app isstandard but Iuse Google app for one thing only -Google Lens. SoI keep scanning a lot of things whichI don't know or which I want toknow more about, through Google LensI get more information about them.Then there is Asana. Asanais a project management toolwhich we use to do everything atwariCrew. My team's name is wariCrew.And every individual's workis allotted to them on Asana. So asI open Asana, I will see a list ofall the things that I have to doas an individual.So I have fill the weekly businessreview for Twitter. So I fill theanalytics for Twitter.I have to shoot 3 weekly YouTubevideos, which I am doing right now.Then I have to shoot YouTube shorts.Then I have to make Instagram reels.Then I have to shootthe podcast. So allof these things are some things thatI have to do.And as it gets completed,I keep checking themso that I know that I have tofinish this task.When my task is completed,the next person, for example, videoeditor, graphic designer etc.,the task will be assigned to themand they will get a notificationthat the previous personhas completed their task,now you can start your task.Brilliant project management.After that,Social folder is the onlyfolder I have on the second screen.I have the messages one as well,but these are almost social media apps.Twitter, LinkedIn,Instagram, in order of usage.So I use Twitter the most,then LinkedIn, then Instagram.I check Facebook sometimes.YouTube Studio is a YouTube analytics.Linktree is a nice app where you canshare several linksthrough one link itself,which is somethingthat you might want to doas a content creator or otherwise.Koo is an interesting socialmedia app which isthe Indian equivalentof Twitter. I don't useit much but I am on itanonymously, soI experience the app.Discord, which is again a placethat I anonymously hang out at.Business Suite, this is Facebook'saccount management app whereyou can manage your ads.Then there is Clubhouse, which Idon't use much. It's an audio onlyplatform where audio conversationscan be heard.Google Ads, whereyou can run Google'sads. Messenger, which is FacebookMessenger and then there is AdsManager, which is Facebook's old app.In fact, I want to delete it.Then there is Messagesin which there is WhatsAppand messages in the form of SMS.WhatsApp is the only appwhose notificationsare on. Otherwise,none of the apps have thenotifications. So you will seeI don't have any notifications in mysocials or emailor any other app. I never distractmyself with notifications.Only thing that I havenotifications on foris WhatsApp because it isa real-time conversation.Then there is Notion.Notion is interesting becauseI create many documents in Notionand record my thoughts.So it's basically a note-taking appand you can see -this is WebVeda, which isthe name of my company.Many of theideas around WebVeda,monthly ratings whichI give the team,I document the wariCrew 1:1s,reel and thread ideas, future ideasabout the business, future coursesabout WebVeda which we can launch,ideas for Money Talks, a serieswe used to run on YouTube,then the ideas for a contentwriting intern we were looking for.Then there are meeting notes, to-do's,people to meet, which I cannot show,but People to Meet isa list that I maintainfor those people whom I wantto meet, so I keep recording itdepending on which person Iwant to meet and Imaintain this list always.Then there is DigiYatra.DigiYatra is a greatapp if you travel frequently throughairports.It has been allowed on someairports, it is not on all airports.When your face is youridentity, so you can clear theentire security by using your face.You don't have toshow the boarding passeverywhere. So the way that it worksis that you uploadyour boarding pass.As I mentioned, I amgoing to Mumbai tomorrow.So my boarding pass for Bombaywill be uploaded.And it has everything like a QR code.You scan it, thenyour face is scanned,and that becomes thenyour entry point.Brilliant experience.On Delhi's T3,guess how long it takes me to getoff the taxi and clear the security?7 minutes, if you don'thave check-in luggage.It takes only 7 minutes. I havetimed it so many times.And that is somethingthat I love about the app.Then there is Titan Smart.My watch is from Titan.So this is the app for that.If I want to check any informationor change the alarm or anything.And then there is ChatGPT.ChatGPT's iOS app has been launched.It is great. If you haven'tused ChatGPT, please use it.Your world will change.Mine has definitely changed.That's the last app of thescreen. As you will see,on the second screen,you will have thenext level ofapps that I use.And then on the third screen,I havedistraction.This is noise.Noise.I never go on this screen.Never.This screen is only for storage.If something goes in here,it means it iskind of stuck there.Then I will have tofind it with a lot of effort.I use themvery rarely. So let's go through themone by one because through thatwe will understand what it is.Firstly, Shopping. So these areall the shopping apps that I have.Flipkart, Myntra, Book My Show,Zoom Car, Urban Company,Nearbuy, Decathlon, H&M, Blinkit.These are the ones. Iuse few of them a lot. FewI am not sure when I used last.But these are theshopping apps that I have.Then, Productivity. It will be a longlist. Google Drive - I use this a lot.But I search for it, soI don't have to do this.There is Skype.Then there is Adobe Fill & Sign.I have to often sign PDFs, so thisis an app that allows me to sign PDFs.Google Meet -the original one.Google Analytics, which I use.Amazon Chime, which isa very stupid software but Amazonemployees have to use this becausethey cannot use Zoom or Google Meet.Microsoft Teams, which hasbecome a little better.WordPress, where I post myblog, host my entire website.Files, which is iPhone's inherentfile management app.Zoom.Notes, I use rarely becauseI mostly use Notion.Voice Memo, I rarelyuse because the qualitydegrades, so I mostlyuse Garage Band.Docs - I use a lot.Calendly is my calendarmanagement software whereif youwant to block a slotwith me, which youcannot do because youwon't have this link.But Ithe 15-minute meeting is there,the call is there, 60 minutemeeting, 30 minute meetingor with wariCrew becausethose are more flexible times soI start it early in the morning,I can do it till late evening,I can do it on Saturday as well.So I share this with them.So whosoeverhas to set up meeting with meI share a copy of thisone-use link and then I will shareit with them and then they canbook the slot. How does it happen?It's very interesting, likethey will open this linkand they will be able tosee all the free slotsin my month. Likein this month, there's nothing left.In the next month,here are the open dateswhich are circled. Soif I select 2nd, Friday,at 04:30, 05:00,05:30,there is a 15-minute slot.This is the only slot that I have.Otherwise, everything isbooked. So this is agreat way for them tobook something with me.And Sheets, which isthe equivalent of Excel,which is on Google.Then let's go to Lifestyle.There is iTunesand App Store from whichwe download apps.Medical - Asian Connect. There is aAsian Medical Hospital near ourhouse and this is the app for that.Aarogya Setu, whichis not in much use now,but at some point was used.And Huawei Health, which isfor Vidur's Huawei watch.Then there is Travel. In that thereis Make My Trip,Cleartrip, Tripadvisor,Booking, Airbnb and Ixigo.I use Ixigo the most.That is our go-to thing.For hotels, I use Make My Trip.And forinformation about any place,I use Tripadvisor. Airbnbis for international.We only stay at Airbnbsinternationally, we neverstay in hotels, because it's amuch better experience.Then there is Food. In that thereis Swiggy, Zomato, Domino's.A separate place for Domino's.Respect.I mostly use Zomato, which is whyyou'll see there isZomato Gold as well.China - I used to visitChina a lot beforedue to Nearbuy. So Alipay is thePaytm equivalent there.DiDi, which is the Uber equivalentand Google Translate whichI used to use because II did not know anythingbeyond hi-hello.Okay,Games - Vidur must have downloaded,I have no idea. Utilities -Truecaller,so utilities are basicallythose things which I don't use,genuinely. Truecaller, Measure.Measure is a very cool thing.So Measure will basicallyshow you how you can measure things.So if I have tomeasure the length of this,so I got to know this is 10cm.Isn't that awesome?Isn't that brilliant?So this is whatwe use at times.Apple TV, I am not surewhy it is in utilities.Wallet, Face Time,Test Flight, Speedtest.Speedtest is used very rarely.I don't use Apple'smain calendar app.Wipro Nextis for the smart bulbin the lamp behind.So I can change thelight, colour, intensity.All that happens through this app.Dropbox and Air Visual. AirVisual shows the pollution level.114.Our AQI is 114 which isunhealthy for sensitive groups.Thankfully I am not in sensitive.Then there is a separatefolder for Rarely Used.So Compass, Stocks etc. are there.I don't use any app for Stocks.I will show which one I use.But this is just general.There's no specific app.Health - there are 2I am not sure why. Inside Timer is ameditation app I used to use before.Wysa is also a meditation app.Headspace was myfirst meditation app.Ultra Human, I used to wear a patchwhich would monitormy glucose levels.So it was for that.Bebird is a very interesting appwhich is a ear-cleaningtool with a camera attached.So you can actuallysee in the camerawhat goes on in your ear.The kids have a lot of fun.This is our family'sbest bedtime experience.Ear-cleaning.Zepp Life, I am not surewhat that is. And Mi Fitnesswas for our old watch.Learning - Podcast, Quora,Kindle. I don't use these 3 appsas much as I used to. For KindleI directly read from Kindle,so I don't use the app.I used to use Quora a long time ago,I don't now. I don't hear podcastthrough this, I use Spotify.Spotify is here.Then there is Entertainment -Hotstar, Prime Video, Netflix, Amazon,Alexa, YouTube. As you can seethey have a timer set againstYouTube and Netflix.This means thatthe time for using this app is over.We have set this for Vidur becausehe gets only half an hour a day.So as soon as that time is over,it gets blocked and it issynced across all the devices.So it is synced withthe iPad, this phone andwith Ruchi's phoneas well.And this is how.So these are all OTT platforms.In Cabs, there isUber, Lyft, BluSmart.Lyft is the app for the USwhich is really good.Yulu is a bike app in Delhiwhich is an electric bike.BluSmart is an electriccabservice in Delhi.Google Maps is also there.There is Telegram, in caseI want to use it anytime. Thereis nothing much on Telegram.So it doesn't work much.Photos and Videos,Teleprompter, Boomerang, InShot,Lensa. Vidur uses InShot often becausehe makes shorts onYouTube around football.In Hobbies,Smule is a veryinteresting app forkaraoke. So if you want tosing along with the songbut don't know the lyrics,so you can use this.Udemy for courses, which is abrilliant app. I use it a lot.Duolingo is forlearning any language.Brilliant app for learning languages.We have a membership for Skillshare.Skillshare has great courseswhich are mostly around productivity.I used to use Sur Sadhanalong back. It is like theTabla Pro.So to check the notes.Medium is a great appforwriters and for readinghigh quality content.On Reddit Igo at times to check how muchhate Ankur Warikoo has received.So I look for Ankur Warikoo andmostly there's hate on that.So I read it and become happy.Then there is Finance.In Finance, there's Google Pay,HDFC Bank,InstaBiz because we havean ICICI account, Cred formaking all payments that I do.Razorpay - from where we takeour entire payment gateway.Uni Card, which has now stoppedunfortunately. There is PhonePe.OCBC is a Singapore based bank.So all our financialbanking for Nearbuy forSingapore happens through OCBC.And then Authenticator which is aauthentication appwhich I don't use much.Accesshas apps like DigiLocker,1Password7 where all mypasswords are saved. My Gate, whichis an entry password.We stay in a societyso the if anyone wantsto come to our house,they need to takepermission from My Gate.Randomly no one can come to our house.Deco is an internet Wifi system.Our house is a little big andthe router is only on one side.So we have put a system from Decowhere the internet gets sharedand it ensures that ourWifi strength will never reduce.Tether is the same thing, but wehave upgraded it and made it Deco.Google Photos, where youcan save your photos.Splitwise, if you are goingon a vacation or dinneror any party with people,you can split the expenses.We mostly use this on vacations wherewe tell one personto pay for everythingand note it, and then wewill use Splitwise andmake the payment finally.Google Slides ispresentation format for Google.And then Investments,this is the final.In Investments, these are allthe apps I use for my money.Firstly, Smallcase.I have put a lot ofmoney in Smallcase.It's what I actively use. IND Money -my entire US investmentis in IND Money.Kite is thebuying and trading softwarefor Zerodha. So its nameis Kite. So I buy or sell stocksthrough this. I do it very rarely.But if I ever do it,it is through this.Coin is the mutual fund app forZerodha. So I buy mutualfunds through thiswhich is largely through the company.The company can onlybuy mutual fundsor stocks. So we buy mutual funds.Vested is another appto invest in US stocks.I use it a little less but Ioccassionally do it.CoinSwitch - I use to use itlong time ago, I don't now butlittle of crypto is yetin that, so I have that.Binance, where I buy all my cryptoand I move it then tomy cold storage which issomething that I own.So it is entirely onthe blockchain. It isnot on any exchange.After Vauld's experience, Idid that. Vauld is yet therebecause that's something thatI still have my money in andhopefully, at some point oftime, that money might come back.WazirX which I used to use a little.But now I do it entirely on Binance.And Coinbase wherelittle crypto is yet therebut I never then use it.That's my Investments.After this, there's nothing.Then the applibrary which is justa list of the apps.These are all the apps thatI use.And as you will seeit progressively ensureszero distraction.So the home screenis very clear.Second screenhas my main apps. Third screenwhere there is a messand I go very rarely.So whenever I have to access an appI mostly search and access.So you will see thatthese are usuallythe top searches which I search.Whether it is to book a flightor Google Maps for navigationor Sheets or Drive.But otherwise,the main way oflooking and browsingthrough my phoneis through these apps itself.None of the apps haveany notifications.Everything is distraction-free.Thisis my world.I useiPhone 13.I always have alatest version -2because it is cheaperand pretty much does the same job.And that's how I roll.I hope this was useful.Out of these, if there is any appwhich you want to know more aboutor if there is any app which youwant to tell me becauseI don't have it, please writeit in the comments section.Ankur Warikoo,signing off.