Check 1 2 alright, blue lamp,fancy, we will see how that goes.20 books to read while you are in your 20s, in this video.Before I begin, my friends, do you see the blue lamp?How is it looking? Do tell. A new addition, I am tryingsomething new, one should keep experimenting in life.So, in this video, you all know I am extremely fond ofbooks and in my 20s, I read a lot of books andtoday I sat down and reflected upon all thosebooks and then I thought I should make a list ofmy top 20 books that I read, that I feel if you inyour 20s, then it will very beneficial to you.There is a giveaway in this video, because wheneverI talk about books, I feel like distributing them,it’s the best gift that I can give, so you all standa chance to win one of these 20 books that I am goingto share with you. How? Keep watching.FirstFirst book, ‘Tuesdays With Morrie’, this book iswritten by Mitch Albom, this is a story about adying professor and on every Tuesday, he sits withthis professor and discusses life. And I think thisbook is just such a brilliant representationof our life through a dying person’s life.I will start all over again.First is, ‘Tuesdays With Morrie’, this book is byMitch Albom. Mitch tells the story about herprofessor whose name is Morrie. Morrie is actuallydying and, on every Tuesday, for many months,Mitch and Morrie would sit down and talk about life.It’s a beautiful book, one of the best books thatI have read and I read it very early on,left a deep meaning impact on my life.Two, it’s not a book but I would have read it in 20s,my life would have changed a lot.‘The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F*ck’, it is one of thebest humor-filled life books, where it is simplysaying that, don’t load on everything,don’t react too much on everything. It’s actuallyOK to live life without having ambitions,without having an urge to make a lot of money.It’s OK to actually be a loser in life. It’s quite afascinating book with a different take on life.Mark Manson is a very powerful writer. If you are inyour 20s, this is a strongly recommended book.Third, ‘The Alchemist’, must have heard of it,maybe you have read it already. If you haven’t,then it is a very powerful book. It is basicallyabout affirmations. A technique which is like,“when you wish something with all you heart,then the whole universe works towards giving you that”,something like that. The dialogue by Sharukh Khanwas basically from the book Alchemist,it’s exactly almost like that but it’s not so muchabout wishful thinking or all that. A genuine andpractical way of thinking about, when youwholeheartedly wish for something thenhow do things move to make it happen.Fourth, ‘Man’s Search for Meaning’, very powerfulbut a very heavy book. It is a book by Viktor Frankl.He was jailed in Nazi Germany, he was Jewish andwhile he was in the concentration camp,not in jail sorry in concentration camp,while in the concentration camp, he changedthe perspective towards life to a great deal,because everywhere he could only seedeaths, sadness, depression, hopelessness.Despite of all this, he tries to find meaning in his life.If someone reads this book in their 20s,then they get a perspective, they actually geta clarity in life that what actually is life.You can get all these books as part of my giveawayfor this video. You only go to the end of this video,comment the name of that book among in thesetwenty in the comment section, which you wantwith the reason why. If your book and your reasonmatch my random selection, then you will get thisbook hand delivered to your doorstep from my side.Fifth, ‘How to Win Friends and Influence People’,book by Carnegie. It’s a good book, it’s obviousby the name, its such a practical way of goingabout making relationships and friendships.How through your personality and communication skills,you can influence people? It is a toolkit for life, must read.Sixth, ‘Quiet:The Power of Introverts’. The reality isall of us feel that only extroverts rule the world,everything is around the people who are confident,pride of every party, speak everything on the stage,but if you are an introvert, which almost 40-50% of the world is,then you shouldn’t feel that you won’t be able toachieve anything in life. The book Quiet is solelyfocused on that. If you are an introvert and you arestruggling to find how your identity can impactthe world, then this book is absolutely for you.Number 7, one of my best books when I read it early on.‘Wait How Do I Write This Email?’, that isactually a book. I have made a lot of videos oncold emailing and this book is specifically on this,that how can you adopt powerful written communication?Email is still a great way for you to reach out topeople who you don’t know, for jobs, for internships,for opportunities, for funding, for whatever you need.And this book lays it out and lays it out so well.In a way I have trained myself through this book andI loved the book when I read it, I don’t even remember,maybe I read it in the 1st or 2nd year of college.After that, write an email for every reason to whoever,I think I have the dubious distinction that I havewritten an email to all the rich and famous peopleof the world, Bill Gates, Elon Musk, Mukesh Ambani,Narendra Modi, I didn’t get an answer to a lot ofemails but it is surprising how many people haveactually written back which I was not even expecting.Number 8, Linchpin, according to me Seth Godin isthe deepest thinker who I know of, he doesn’t know me,I know him, and Linchpin is his best book according to me.It is about, how in an organisation, you can becomethe most important part, because a machine is madeup of different parts and we feel that this part is very small,it is useless, it is not valuable, but you can actuallymake a difference by the way that you approachyour work and Linchpin is around that only.For someone in their 20s, if you get the clarity thathow you work can define your existence,what is the approach towards becoming a thoroughworking professional, each person should feel thatyou are not dispensable, it’s not like we can firethis person whenever we want, because they bringto the table so valuable that we can never predictor imagine. That is who you want tobecome and that is what Linchpin teaches you.Number 9, ‘Start With Why’, Simon Sinek is avery deep thinker, one of my favorite peoplewhen it comes to making presentations aroundpeople, culture, organisations, leadership,and Start With Why is inspired by his famous theory ofThe Golden Circle. Golden Circle means that all thepowerful leaders, powerful companies, powerful brandsalways start with why. Why do we exist?Why does it matter? Why are we in this?Why do we get up every day? Why are we doing this?And since they are able to narrate and establishtheir Why properly, their What and How is eventuallyfigured out easily. Start With Why and that is alsovery important if you are in 20s if you choosing acareer, choosing a partner, if you start with why,suddenly everything becomes very very clear.Number 10, Mindset, when I read this book, I think,you know when you read some books, they justopen up your mind, like you are like, you nowknow something which is so meaningful that youare almost beginning a second life. That is whathappened when I read this book called the Mindset.It is a book by Carol Dweck. If you have heard aboutgrowth or fixed mindset, then this book is about that.Growth mindset is a mindset where a personbelieves that the IQ and the capability that hewas born with, that is not his limit, they canbecome whosoever they want to become
was born with, that is not his limit, they canbecome whosoever they want to becomebecause they have the ability to grow,
become whosoever they want to becomebecause they have the ability to grow,and fixed mindset are all those people whofeel that they can reach the IQ, the capabilitythey were born with, not beyond that,it doesn’t matter whatever they do, they will remainwhere they were, and that difference makesall the difference. A very good book, one of the best booksthat you can pick up while you are in your 20s.I am gifting all these 20 books to all of youthrough this video, all you have to do is at theend of the video, go to the comment section andwrite the name of your most favorite or most desired bookfrom these 20 books with the reason why.20 winners will be selected randomly, and allof them will get this book hand delivered to theirdoorstep from my side. Hand deliver doesn’t meanI will come myself and deliver it, the book willreach your doorstep, I just want to be sure.Eleven, ‘The Defining Decade’, it is quite obviousbut an interesting book. It is written by a doctorand she goes on to say that our 20s are thedefining decade for a person in their lifetime,because in 20s only you form the mostimportant relationship, you take themost important career decisions, your mostimportant studies are done, then how do you navigatethrough these 20s and how does it come to define you,is what this book is about. Brilliant book!Strongly recommended, very good liberating bookbecause that’s when you realize thatthis decade of yours can change your life.Number 12, ‘Freakonomics’, maybe you haveheard of it. Very interesting book on economicsbut if you shy away from economics or if you area science student and haven’t studied economicsor if you are a humanities student and haven’tstudied economics, the best thing about thisbook is that it is very humoristic take on economics.Basically, this book shows the normal thingsthat we see in our daily lives, tries to make youunderstand those in a fashion that it becomesvery easy to understand. There is humor,very simple writing, very unique writing,6 essays which will transform the wayyou look at the world, very good book.Number 13, ‘A Short History of Nearly Everything’,it is a very good book because it is kind of asummary of Big Bang to all that is happeningin the world today. So, in this book, they have triedto explain each and every important thing that hashappened in the world. A very good book,very simple read but a fun read, I liked it a lot.Based on that number 14, ‘Sapiens’, must haveheard of Sapiens, it is a recent book, it cameout in this decade but if I would have readit in my 20s, then I would have got so much
out in this decade but if I would have readit in my 20s, then I would have got so muchclarity about so many things. How did money begin?
it in my 20s, then I would have got so muchclarity about so many things. How did money begin?Why did agricultural revolution start?What is the meaning of religion?All these things explained by Yuval Harari.Brilliant, brilliant book! One of the best booksever written. If you can do it, you know what,actually I will do it. So, this book has apaperback version and an illustrated version,which is like a comic book. It’s brilliant hardbound,quite costly, maybe around ₹1200 or something.So, I will give away a paperback and anillustrated version of Sapiens and it will be
So, I will give away a paperback and anillustrated version of Sapiens and it will berandomly selected from whosoever says Sapiens.
illustrated version of Sapiens and it will berandomly selected from whosoever says Sapiens.So, 2 books for Sapiens because I just remembered itand it made me so happy that I will be able togift this book to someone. So, 2 books forSapiens, one paperback and the otherhardbound comic or illustrated version.All you have to do is, go to the comment sectionand mention the name of the book and the reason
All you have to do is, go to the comment sectionand mention the name of the book and the reasonyou want it, randomly selected people will getone of these 20 books, hand delivered,home delivered actually, why do I keep sayinghand delivered, home delivered because it willbe delivered by Amazon, I won’t deliver it.Number 15, ‘Rich Dad, Poor Dad’, must haveheard the name. If you haven’t then welcometo this book which will give you all the clarityabout your money. this is the best way tounderstand money, the way we should haveunderstood money. Our parents never tell usabout money because maybe they also didn’t knowmuch about money, but this book opens up your mind.Everything that you need to know aboutmoney and how to look at money is in this bookRich Dad Poor Dad, brilliant brilliant brilliant book!Number 16, ‘Thinking Fast and Slow’, slightlydeep book yet a very meaningful one.Basically, it tells that whenever we face a situation,then our mind immediately reacts in two ways.One mind which instantly says that we should do this,and the other mind which thinks with patience,is sensible and tells us what to do, and thesetwo minds compete with each other.Thinking fast and thinking slow, this is what thebook is about. How are brain has over several millionsof years come to this point where thinking fast
book is about. How are brain has over several millionsof years come to this point where thinking fastand thinking slow are competing with each other,which of these makes more sense and why?Great book to read.Number 17, ‘Wings of Fire’, biography of APJ Abdul Kalaam.Brilliant brilliant story! Unbelievably inspirational!That how a person from such a humble backgroundbecomes a rocket scientist and then finally thepresident of this country, and with such humility,such an inspiring man. For me, APJ standsas the testimony of, if you take a strong decision that youwant to be somewhere, then nothing can stop you.Another biography at number 18,Another biography at number 18,‘Beyond the Last Blue Mountain’, this is theautobiography of JRD Tata, well it’s a biography,it’s an official biography so it can be called an
autobiography of JRD Tata, well it’s a biography,it’s an official biography so it can be called anautobiography. Again, an inspirational story,how JRD built the Tata group? How he took it to aposition where it is the most respected and trustedbrand in the country. Phenomenal, phenomenal story!So much to learn, especially when youare young and when you are eagerto get inspired by people like these.Number 19, a new book but a strong recommendation,‘Atomic Habits’, it’s a brilliant, brilliant bookby James Clear. Basically, it goes in to explainingthat how the minutest of habits can bring abouthuge changes in your life. We don’t have to dobig things to change our life, we feel thatwe will have to do something drastic andthen only something is possible but Atomic Habitsabsolutely dispels that myth and presents to youa completely different way of changing your life.Finally, number 20, ‘Ikigai’, if you haven’t heardof Ikigai, then it is a very powerful concept,it’s a Japanese term which essentially means‘the meaning of life’. What is the meaning of our life?
it’s a Japanese term which essentially means‘the meaning of life’. What is the meaning of our life?What is the purpose of our life? And Ikigai is a storyabout how do you go around finding it.What is its concept? What is its theory?It’s a good book to start and I think in your 20s,it will give you a good understanding andawareness about what is Ikigai and what shouldyou go after. It will not entirely help you,but if you read about this book and then youget interested, then it has many more avatarswhich can help you get to the next level.So, these were my 20 book recommendationsfor your 20s. like I said, this is a giveaway video,so each of these 20 books will be gifted to you.All you have to do is, please comment whichbook you want, why do you want it, I willrandomly select 20 people for these 20 booksand they will get these books home deliveredto them by Amazon. I hope you have thoroughlyenjoyed this video and have got a lot of ideason what books to read next.This is Ankur Warikoo, signing off!